TREASURE OF THE BRASADA

PERIL AND INTRIGUE ON THE BORDER

By LES SAVAGE, JR.

DELL PUBLISHING COMPANY, INC.

George T. Delacorte, Jr.                               _President_

Albert P. Delacorte                            _Vice-President_

Helen Meyer                            _Vice-President_

261 Fifth Avenue                           New York 16, N. Y. Printed in U.S.A.
DESIGNED AND PRODUCED BY WESTERN PRINTING & LITHOGRAPHING COMPANY

Copyright, 1947, by Les Savage, Jr. Reprinted by arrangement             with
Simon and Schuster, Inc., New York, N. Y. [Transcriber's Note: Extensive
research did not uncover any evidence        that the U.S. copyright on this
publication was renewed.] Persons this _Story_ is about--

GLENN CRAWFORD, whose pallor and feverishly glowing eyes mark the three months
he has just spent in a hospital as the result of an accident he suspects was
planned, has the restless animal lines of body and negligible hips of one who
has been much in the saddle. Hotheaded, once fearless, he is presently trying to
overcome an unreasoning panic and pain which rack his body whenever he goes near
a horse. MERIDA LOPEZ, whose presence at the Big O ranch is surrounded by
mystery, has a faintly exotic beauty and slumberous, provocative eyes which both
irritate Crawford and stir something primal in him. He isn't sure of her game,
but he knows a woman like Merida doesn't trail through the wild brush country
just for the scenery. DR. FELIZ HUERTA, who looks as though he's in the process
of disintegration, has strongly arched brows and a graying peak of hair which
gives him a satanic cast. His eyes hold a dull, jaded lackluster, and even the
slightest movement seems to cost him infinite effort. For his own reasons, he is
extremely interested in Crawford's symptoms. QUARTEL, come to wind up affairs at
the Big O, is a huge hunk of thick brown flesh with sensual lips and shoulders
like sides of beef. He boasts he can rope better, ride farther, drink more and
cuss dirtier than any hombre between Texas and Mexico City. OTIS ROCKLAND, whom
Crawford makes no bones about hating, is the owner of the Big O. As Crawford
looks at it, Rockland's dealings with Crawford's pal, old Delcazar, were no less
dirty for being legal. DELCAZAR, who fears his friend Crawford is mixed up in
the most dangerous thing that ever hit the wild brush country, is an aged,
gnarled, and skinny Mexican who lives alone in the back country. He has rheumy
eyes in a face seamed as an old satchel. CABEZABLANCA, so-called for his head of
pure white hair, is one of the Big O crew. He has a reputation for being deadly
dangerous, but for some reason Huerta seems to have him under his thumb. JACINTO
(LITTLE HYACINTH) DEL RIO, the big, fat, grumbling cook, listened to his father
when he told him there were two sins in the world, working and fighting, and if
he avoided both of them he would surely go to heaven. BUENO BAILEY, a tough
bronc-buster, gaunt as an alley cat, has milky eyes, and parts his long yellow
hair in the middle, slicking it down with bacon grease. Crawford suspects him of
being responsible for his "accident." AFORISMO, who has a sinister proverb for
every occasion, is a thin, stooped man whose eyebrows, slanting toward the
middle of his forehead, give him a mournful expression. His favorite motto, cut
into his razor-sharp knife, is _Tripe is sweet but bowels are better_. WALLACE
TARANT, Otis Rockland's lawyer, has a broad-shouldered, narrow-hipped frame, a
square brow and a wide, thin-lipped mouth which should have held a palpable
strength. But his eyes won't meet Crawford's, and his voice is small for such a
large man. SHERIFF ED KENMARE, weary lawman of San Antonio, whose duties hang
heavy upon him, has a bulbous nose prominent among heavy, weathered features.
FORD INNES, Cabezablanca's saddlemate, is a red-bearded redhead with shrewd
little eyes and a short square body which holds all the lethal threat of a snub-
nosed derringer. AFRICANO, a big black devil of a horse, is a killer nobody has
been able to break. Just the thought of him drives Crawford into a trembling
frenzy of fear, but he knows he must conquer Africano or go crazy. What this
_Story_ is about--

Being caught, bloody gun in hand, leaning over the body of the man he had
threatened to kill forces bronc-buster Glenn Crawford to turn up at the Big O
ranch, a weary, footsore fugitive with more than one score to settle. Even the
murder of the ranch owner in San Antonio had not prepared Crawford for the state
of affairs he finds at the ranch. His sudden presence there seems to scare some
of the crew half to death and lead others to try to kill him every chance they
get. For the moment, however, Crawford is more interested in the state of
affairs in his own body than in those of the Big O and the murderer he is sure
the ranch harbors. A veteran of the saddle, Crawford discovers that since an
accident which he suspects was planned, he goes into a frenzy of pain and
trembling panic whenever he gets near a horse. But in spite of the torture it
costs him, Crawford stays on at the ranch. He knows he cannot be a free man
until he finds the murderer of Otis Rockland. Nor can he be a whole man until he
conquers the black devil of a killer horse, Africano. After he meets Merida
Lopez, an exotic beauty whose presence at the Big O is surrounded by mystery, he
has a third motive for staying around, although he stands to lose his reason if
not his life. Trapped by forces which he cannot understand, and half-crazed by
the torturing pain and panic which he tries desperately both to overcome and to
hide, Crawford gets himself more and more hopelessly entangled in what, as old
Delcazar points out, looks like the most dangerous thing that ever hit the wild
brush country. Crawford is offered a strange proposition by sinister Dr. Huerta;
he listens to Merida's spellbinding tale of Santa Anna's chests--and as he
listens, the jagged third of a map he possesses, plus a dying man's painfully
gasped out words, take on a new and important meaning; he waits, trapped,
weaponless, for a killer to come nearer, nearer--And he delivers to his other
pursuers the body of one sent out to kill him--only to become more deeply
enmeshed in new and still more terrifying trouble. Crawford's irritation at
being stirred by Merida, whom he alternately respects and suspects of playing
him for a fool, doesn't prevent him from riding secretly with her in the night
in search of a place so malicious few men have ever stepped foot in it. Nor does
it later prevent him from risking an agonizing death to follow her into it.
Before the true murderer reveals himself, and before Crawford can again call
himself a whole man, much violent action takes place. Set against the exciting
background of the untamed Texas border country, this is a thrilling brew of
suspense, quick death, adventure, and love. [Illustration: Map]

List of Chapters--

I. Circumstantial Evidence

II. Santa Anna's Chests

III. Huerta Was Right! IV. Unreasoning Fear

V. Huerta Makes a Proposition

VI. "Tell Us What Happened." VII. Sunday Celebration

VIII. Best Roper in the World

IX. Still in the Throes of Fear

X. Flight From Snake Thickets

XI. Old Friends Reunited

XII. Conqueror and Conquered

XIII. Violence in the Bunkhouse

XIV. Challenging Snake Thickets

XV. Treasure Hunt Climax

Treasure of the Brasada

_Chapter One_

CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE

Crossing Alamo Plaza, Glenn Crawford was almost to the Manger Hotel when he
became aware of Sheriff Ed Kenmare standing in the entrance to the patio.
Crawford felt the hesitant break to his stride. Then, deliberately, he went on,
feeling for the first time the sweat glistening on his unshaven upper lip and
forming dark blue spots in the armpits of his faded ducking jacket. It might
have been the sun. It was a hot spring for San Antonio. "How about the riding,
Glenn?" asked the sheriff, casually. "My legs are all right, Ed," said Crawford,
halting momentarily. "I noticed you still limped a bit," Kenmare told him. "You
got off easy, I guess. Horse mashed my cousin's legs rolling on him that way up
in Deaf Smith. He never did heal so he could ride any more." "My legs are all
right," said Crawford, turning to go past him and through the patio gate. "You
got other things to heal besides your legs," said Kenmare, shifting his dusty,
tobacco-odored bulk in front of Crawford. "Why don't you think things out a bit
longer before you see Otis Rockland again?" "This isn't my idea," said Crawford.
"Otis sent me word he was here and wanted to talk." Kenmare's watery gray eyes
met Crawford's, and he put a gnarled hand on the younger man's arm. "Then give
me your gun, Glenn, before you go up." A strange, defiant withdrawal drew
Crawford's body up, accentuating for the first time its restless, animal lines.
In his brass-studded levis, he had the lean catty legs and negligible hips of a
man whose work had been much in the saddle, and though his shoulders were
narrow, their muscularity was apparent beneath the denim jacket. His forehead
was high and bony and pale below the short curling black hair; and, set deep
within their sockets, his eyes held a sunken, almost feverish glow, which could
have come from the recent sickness, or something else. His rope-marked fingers
tightened about the brass receiver of his old Henry. "I'll keep the rifle, Ed,"
he said. "Now let me by." Kenmare did not release Crawford's arm. He dropped his
gaze to one side, reaching up to rub the sweat exuding from the large, greasy
pores of his rather bulbous nose. "Something I never did get straight, Glenn,"
he said, looking at the worn boot he was scuffing in the earth. "This whole
thing between you and Rockland seems to have started with the way Rockland got
hold of Delcazar's land." "Del was--"

"I know, Glenn, I know." Kenmare's fingers tightened momentarily on Crawford's
arm. "You and Delcazar was pretty close friends. And you think Rockland gave
Delcazar a raw deal." "You know he did," said Crawford. "Del had a small spread,
but it had the best water in that section of the brush. Rockland had to have
that water. And he got it." "But he did it all legal, Glenn." "Legal."
Crawford's voice was bitter. "He knew Del only held his spread with one of those
old Spanish grants they call a _sitio_. His lawyers found out that this one was
so mixed up through the years that Del couldn't prove ownership. He petitioned
the state, had it declared public domain, and got it for a song. Yes, it was
legal all right." "Those things happen," said Kenmare wearily. "It wasn't your
spread, Glenn." "No. But Del was my friend. I was busting broncs for Otis
Rockland at the time. I went to him and told--"

That hand tightened again. "I know what you told him, Glenn. Maybe you were
right. Maybe Rockland even had that cinch cut on the black killer so it would
roll you. But listen, Glenn--" Kenmare took a weary, wheezing breath--"this
ain't the way." "What isn't the way?" said Crawford with growing heat. "I told
you Rockland sent for me, Ed." "There must have been half a dozen Big O hands
heard you threaten to kill Rockland after that bronc rolled you under," Kenmare
told him heavily. "Don't you think three months in the hospital cools a man off
some, Ed?" said Crawford. "Now get out of my way. It's too hot for an argument.
I'll buy you a beer on the way out." He shoved past the sheriff and into the
tiled patio. The alamo tree dropped its deep, dappled shade over the cattlemen
sitting tilted back in the line of peeling cane chairs against the adobe wall.
Their lazy, sporadic conversation died abruptly, and the only sound was the hard
beat of Crawford's heels against the tiles. His lips formed a thin, bitter line
against his teeth as he passed the speculation in their lifted gazes and entered
the foyer. The cool, inner chill struck him with a distinct physical force,
after the stifling heat of the day without, and caused him to draw in a quick
breath. He skirted a potted palm and went up the broad, carpeted stairs to 211,
the room Otis Rockland always took when he came to San Antonio. He had lifted
his hand to knock, when the sound came from inside. It was muffled and dim at
first, rising to a thumping crescendo, with someone calling something, the whole
thing ceasing then, abruptly. After a moment of silence, Crawford seemed to hear
heavy breathing. He let his knuckles strike the pine panel of the door. It
rattled mutedly. That was his only answer. "Otis?" he called. He waited a moment
longer, then turned the knob. The door opened into the sumptuous parlor of the
suite. The wine overhangings were drawn across the windows against the sun,
casting into semi-gloom the spidery pattern of white and gilt furniture in the
room. He heard a shutter clack in the bedroom and knocked his knee against a low
marquetry table in front of the sofa as he headed for the door. He took his
Henry in both hands and shoved open the door with its tip. The first thing he
saw was a pile of blue chintz on the floor. It was the hanging, torn off the
tester of the four-poster, and Otis Rockland must have clutched it when falling,
for his hand was still gripping it in terrifying desperation. The portieres had
been pulled back by an opened shutter, and the avenue of bright light, splashing
across the rich Brussels carpet, touched Rockland's feet and led Crawford to
turn momentarily toward the window. "No--Crawford--"

He wheeled back to see Rockland's eyes open. The man made some feeble effort to
rise. Crawford dropped to one knee beside him, laying the rifle down.
"Delcazar?" he said. Rockland's lips twisted in what could have been a smile.
"Like you, to think of that." "I guess more than one has good cause to want you
dead, Otis," said Crawford. "Yes." It came out of the man in a hoarse, strained
way. But there was a look of macabre humor or malice, or both, in his face as he
spoke. "They'll think it was Delcazar, won't they? Or you, Glenn." "I'll get
someone--"

"No. No." Rockland reached up to grab at his shirt as Crawford started to rise.
"Won't do any good. Too late." He fought for breath for a moment, then went on,
slowly. "Reach--inside--coat." Crawford could see the thick, viscid blood
forming beneath the back of Rockland's iron-gray head now. There was a brutal
slash across the man's face, slicing deep into the bridge of his dominating,
avaricious nose. Even as Crawford watched, the eyes closed and the breathing
grew stertorous. The man was obviously beyond help. With a swift movement
Crawford reached beneath Rockland's expensive steel pen, drawing a wallet from
the inner pocket. He was starting to go through it, when Rockland's eyes opened.
"Rip lining, Glenn," he whispered. "What he was after--you scared him off--'fore
he could find it." Crawford fumbled with the soft doeskin flap of the wallet,
finally managing to rip it out, revealing a piece of faded, yellowed paper. He
pulled this out. Unfolded, it formed a triangle, the bottom straight, the other
two sides jagged and torn. "Looks like some kind of a map," he said. "Yes," said
Rockland, feebly. "_Derrotero._ Santa Anna's chests." "Whose chests? What are
you talking about, Otis?" Rockland's lip drew back over his teeth, more a
grimace than a smile. "Don't lie, Crawford," he murmured. "Why else were you so
het-up when I got Delcazar's spread? You knew about this _derrotero_ then."
"About what?" said Crawford hotly, clutching him. "How is Del mixed up in this?"
But Rockland's head had fallen back once more; and for a moment Crawford thought
he was gone. Suddenly he found himself shaking Rockland in a fever of
impatience. "Otis," he cried, "Otis, did Del give you this? Where did you get
this map?" Once more Rockland's eyes opened, but a glaze was on them. "Mexico,"
he whispered. "Mexico City." Suddenly Crawford knew. The Delcazars had come from
Mexico City originally. And their family papers must have been in the hands of a
lawyer there. When Rockland got Delcazar's spread, he had sent his own lawyer
down there to make sure there was nothing to obscure his title to the land.
Evidently Tarant had found this part of the _derrotero_ among the papers. But
this was only a third of it. Where was the rest of it? The light grew brighter.
So this was why Rockland had sent for him. He thought that he, Crawford, knew
about the map--knew, perhaps, who held the missing pieces. Santa Anna's chests,
Rockland had said, Santa Anna's chests. All at once he found himself muttering
the words aloud, "Santa Anna's chests--"

As though the words were a magic Sesame, Rockland opened his eyes. Drawing on
some hidden reservoir of strength, he pulled himself to a sitting position.
"Where's the rest of it, Glenn?" he gasped. "Does Delcazar know? Glenn, Glenn,
where's the rest--"

Crawford caught at the man as Rockland sank back. "Otis?" It was the muted
footsteps, then, coming across the Brussels carpet in the outer room. Crawford
had allowed Rockland to drop back when Ed Kenmare's bulk filled the doorway. A
vague pain moved over the sheriff's heavy weathered features. "The manager heard
a ruckus up here," he said. "I guess he was right. No, Glenn--"

"Yes, Ed," said Glenn, violently, scooping up his Henry and whirling back toward
the man. Kenmare had his own six-shooter only half out of its holster. He
stopped that way, staring at the .44. There were other men behind the sheriff
now, several of the cowmen from the patio and lobby, the hotel manager in a
white morning coat. "I guess there's no use denying it, is there?" said
Crawford, through his teeth. Kenmare let his eyes drop to the Henry's wooden
butt. Crawford felt it then, sticky against his fingers, and realized the wood
must have been lying in the blood from Rockland's head. A nausea swept him.
"Ed," he said, unable to keep from it, "I didn't, I didn't--"

His bitter voice trailed off as he saw resignation in Kenmare's faded eyes.
"Listen, son," the man told him. "It won't do you no good this way. Give me that
gun now." "No." The finger lever made a sharp click, cocking, and with his hand
holding it down, Crawford started backing toward the window. "Think I'd have a
chance? It's all here, isn't it? All right here, cinched up tighter'n a bucking
rig. No loose lashings even. Everything to hang me. I'm not going to be taken
for that, Ed." "Glenn," said Kenmare, with that same weighty reluctance, "for
once, don't be a hothead. You go off half-cocked like this and bugger your bronc
every time. This just won't do you any good--"

"Don't do it, Jason," Crawford shouted, turning his gun toward one of the
cattlemen behind Kenmare. Harry Jason stopped trying to shift back of Kenmare
where Crawford wouldn't see him draw his gun, and moved his hand carefully away
from the wooden butt of the weapon. There was no intelligent reasoning in
Crawford now. Only a terrible consciousness of that dead body on the floor, and
a blind, animal urge to escape this. He lifted his leg over the iron railing of
the balcony onto the ledge outside. There was the first violent movement among
the men in the room as he crouched down to drop off the ledge, and he heard
someone shout. Then he jumped. It was not a long fall, and he broke it by
catching the edge of the balcony with his free hand and hanging there till his
arm was stretched out with his weight, then letting go. One of his high heels
turned under him as he struck the flagstones below, and he let himself go down
on his knees and then roll it off to keep from spraining an ankle. As he leaped
to his feet, Kenmare appeared on the balcony, gun out. Crawford was already
running toward the front entrance, past the line of cane chairs. There were
still half a dozen cattlemen sitting there, and two of them were standing at the
end, and Kenmare was apparently fearful of hitting them if he shot. "Stop him,"
shouted the lawman. "Crawford. He killed Rockland. Get him, you fools--"

The men standing made an abortive shift to block Crawford's passage, but he was
already opposite them, and surprise held the other men in their chairs till he
was almost to the door. He saw several pulling at their guns, but Mexicans and
cowhands were passing by outside in the street, or stopping farther beyond in
the Plaza to gape curiously, and a bullet might have struck one of them. There
were half a dozen cow ponies at a cottonwood rack in front of the Manger, and as
Crawford reached them he noticed that the reins of the first were tied in a
hitch that could be knocked free. He did it with the tip of his gun, throwing
the ribbons over the animal's neck. Excited by Crawford's running up like that,
the hairy little black started to whirl inward. Crawford jumped for the stirrup
with one foot, letting the centrifugal force slap him into the saddle as the
horse whirled on around. "Hey," shouted one of the cattlemen, streaming out of
the patio behind him. "Get off that horse, Crawford, he's mine--"

But Crawford was already turning the animal into Blum Street. Halfway down the
block he cut through an alley onto Commerce and turned at the corner of Commerce
and Alamo, wheeling into another alley that led directly down to the river. He
crashed through a line of washing hung behind a squalid Mexican hovel and
scattered a bunch of cackling hens, tearing a white _camisa_ off his head, his
hat going with it. A Mexican woman ran from the hut, waving her arms and
squealing at him, and behind that he could hear the dim sounds of running
horses. He had gone down Blum to make them think he was heading west out of
town, and hoped they would not discover his true direction till he had left by
the south. He slid the pony down the stone coping banking the river, letting the
current carry him beneath the Market Street bridge before trying to reach the
opposite bank. He got out of town following back alleys and side streets, and
then broke into South Flores Street. And now, as he pushed the laboring pony
toward the twin spires of Mission Concepción, it began to come. There had been
no room for it in the violent excitement of those first few minutes, with all
his concentration on escape. But now, with the steady beat of running hoofs
beneath him, it began to grow in him. First, perhaps, it was a consciousness of
that steady shuddering pound of hoofs beneath him. Then, the constant, heated
movement of the horse's muscles, the dim sense of its flanks, rising and falling
with the heavy breathing, the feel of its shoulders beneath the saddle moving
back and forth. And finally, more than the movement and the sound outside him.
Something within. He did not know where it started. In his legs, perhaps. Or his
groin. Somewhere down there. A strange, thin, hollow sensation. "No--"

He didn't know whether it had been in his mind or whether he had said it. He
turned in the saddle, staring down the road behind, trying to blot it from his
consciousness. He was past the fields of white niggerheads about Concepción, and
was approaching the second mission, San José de Aguayo, which had been
established by the Spaniards here in 1720. But it was growing in him. He was
sweating beneath the armpits now. It was recognizable now. Pain. More than that
--hollow, nebulous sickness at the pit of his stomach. Pain. Pinpricks of it,
shooting up his legs. A hoarse, strained sob escaped him. How could it be? They
had told him, no. He was healed. How can it be? _I'm healed, damn you, I'm
healed._

The roof of San Aguayo had fallen in, and only a few windows were left in the
south wall, protected by the remains of delicate iron _rejas_, their tarnished
panes flashing dully in the sun as Crawford passed by. He was barely conscious
of this. He was sweating now, his fists gripping the reins so desperately the
knuckles gleamed translucently through the skin. The pain seemed to have sound
now. His head was roaring with it. He was shaking violently now, and the horse
felt it and began reflecting his lack of control, breaking its stride, shifting
from side to side down the road. The stepped belfries of San Francisco de la
Espade rose into view. The last ruins of the _baluarte_ built for the defense of
the mission ran parallel to the road, sections of this bastion crumbling off
into the ruts of the highway. The horse changed leads to side-step some of the
adobe fallen onto the road, and Crawford lurched out of the saddle, barely
recovering himself. He heard someone making hoarse, guttural sounds, and
realized it was himself. And now, more than the pain, something else was rising
in him. The hot, sweaty fetor of the horse filled him with a violent nausea. He
had a wild impulse to escape it. He caught himself actually stiffening up to
throw himself free of the running horse. "No!" Again, he did not know if it was
in his head, or if he had shouted it. The very sound of the running horse seemed
to fill his brain now. Each thundering hoofbeat was a separate note of agony.
And more than the agony which filled him, that other something he could not
define, or would not, so confused with the pain now he could not tell the two
apart. Finally he could stand it no longer. Brutally, he reined in the horse.
The animal brought himself to a series of stiff-legged halts that almost jolted
him over its head. He swung off the lathered, heaving animal, and then, standing
with his face toward its hairy wet hide, he was filled with that nausea again.
He wheeled away from the horse, stumbling across the road to a pile of rubble
that marked the remains of the aqueduct. With a hoarse exhalation, he lowered
himself weakly to the adobe, dropping his head forward into his hands, so that
the black hair fell through his grimy fingers in dank, sweaty tendrils. "I _can_
ride," he said aloud, in a desperate voice, "I _can_ ride!" _Chapter Two_

SANTA ANNA'S CHESTS

It had a million faces. At dawn it was a dim, foggy mask. At noon it leered in
brassy, burning malignance. At night it was a cunning visage, sometimes filled
with bizarre mutations by the caprice of moonlight, sometimes cloaked in the
unrelieved sin of utter blackness. This was the _brasada_. Glenn Crawford did
not know how many weeks of weary travel lay behind him since he had left that
cow pony by the mission and had struck out on foot for this borderland which had
provided sanctuary for so many fugitives. Now, crouched in a thicket of black
chaparral, with the late afternoon sun falling through the branches to cast a
weird shadow pattern across his back, Crawford was filled with an oppressive
sense of its infinite mystery. It was a Spanish word, _brasada_, and there was
no English equivalent. For it was not brushland in the ordinary sense. Not
scattered clumps of mesquite dotting an arid prairie, or small thickets of sage
in a sandy plain. It was a jungle. A dry jungle, as vast and unexplored as the
Amazon jungles, stretching through southern Texas between the Nueces River and
the Rio Grande for uncounted miles, in many places so thick as to be impossible
of penetration. Until he had reached its safety, Crawford's primary instinct had
been the simple animal urge of escape. But once within its borders, a desire to
get at the root of this thing, and to clear himself, began to grow in him. And
though he knew the dangers involved, it had inevitably drawn him to the Big O,
where the whole thing had started. Otis Rockland's father had established the
spread here in the _brasada_ just before the Texas Revolution, shipping lumber
for his house from New Orleans. It was a strange building, in a land where most
structures were low adobe hovels. Its two stories rose gaunt and lonely against
the dark horizon of brush, the flat gambrel roof supporting a pair of glassed-in
cupolas over the front. Crawford had been here since noon, watching it, not yet
knowing what he had meant to do when he reached the spread. The sun had burned
bronze streaks through his shaggy mane of black hair, and a scrubby, matted
beard grew up into the hungry hollows beneath his high cheek-bones, rendering
his face gaunt and wolfish. His whole body jerked with the sudden crackle of
brush behind him, and he started to whirl and rise from his hunkers and pull his
gun around all in the same violent movement. "Never mind, Glenn, you'd never do
it in time," said the man standing there. He waited a moment, grinning, and then
spoke again with a deliberate, slow irony. "If you'll drop that Henry, we'll be
able to talk comfortably." Crawford let the rifle slip reluctantly from stiff
fingers, and then straightened his legs out until he was standing, faced toward
the man they called Cabezablanca for his head of pure white hair. His face was
as smooth and unlined as a coffee bean, and he wore a pair of tight buckskin
leggings they called _chivarras_ this near the border, and a blue cotton shirt,
and Crawford had never seen him without the Winchester he carried now. "It's
been a long time since you busted broncs for the Big O, Glenn," said
Cabezablanca. "Ain't you going to say something? _Buenos días_, for an old
_amigo_, or how are things?" He waited a moment, the smile slipping from his
thin, beardless lips. "You better be civil to me, Glenn. I'm a very dangerous
man." He halted again, and when he realized Crawford would not answer, a sullen
anger tightened his lips. "Very well, let us go and see what they want to do
with you." Crawford turned around, moving from the screen of brush in stiff,
catty steps, the tense forward thrust of his shoulders giving them that narrow
appearance. He was aware that Cabezablanca stooped to pick up the Henry as he
followed. Crawford had been watching the crew working a bunch of horses in the
corrals, and now, as he drew near, he saw that they had pulled a new animal into
the tight chute between the smaller pen where the animals were held and the
larger one where they were worked. It was a big black animal the Mexicans called
a _puro negro_, throwing itself crazily against the bars of the chute, the whole
structure shuddering with its violent struggles. Crawford was not aware that he
had stopped till Cabezablanca came up beside him. "Yeah, Crawford," said the
white-headed man, watching him narrowly. "Africano. Sort of brings back things,
doesn't it? That black devil's still rolling them, and nobody's broke it yet." A
man threw a dally rope over the top of the chute, noosing the black animal's
neck and pulling it tight against the bars. The beast fought wildly a moment,
banging its skull against the cedar poles. The corrals shook again, and yellow
dust rose about that section, obscuring the horse. When the dust settled, the
_puro negro_ had quit battling, and stood with its forelegs stiff, breathing
heavily through its nose. A tall, slat-limbed Mexican climbed to the top of the
chute, and the men below handed him up a double-rigged Porter. He dropped the
heavy saddle on the horse, and a man below reached through the bars to get the
front girth, pulling the latigo through the cinch rings and yanking the girth
tight. Africano squealed shrilly, trying to jerk away again. Then another
Mexican climbed up the bars of the chute and stood at the top, pulling his belt
up. He was so broad he appeared short, his close-cropped hair beginning to gray
at the temples. His great shoulders bunched like sides of beef beneath the
strained wool of a faded _charro_ jacket with a few tattered remnants of what
might have been gold embroidery on its lapels. He wore a pair of tight rawhide
leggings, and the rolling muscles of his thighs had burst the seams in several
places between hip and knee. Crawford licked dry lips. "Who is it?" "Quartel,"
said Cabezablanca. "When you killed Rockland in San Antonio, a lot of the Big O
crew drifted. Bueno Bailey and me are about the only ones left of the old bunch.
Rockland didn't have no heirs. So his lawyer was given the job of cleaning up
the estate. There's a lot of cattle to be choused out of that brush and Tarant
had to get a new ramrod. And Quartel's him." "But--" Crawford moved his hand
vaguely toward the horse--"Africano--"

"The nigger sort of fascinates Quartel, I guess," grinned the other. "He's been
trying to break it ever since he got here. That black devil almost stove him up
a couple of times." Quartel was straddling the bars of the chute with his feet,
leaning down to tug at the saddle a couple of times and test the cinches. They
finally got the bit in and pulled the rawhide reins up to where Quartel could
take hold of them. He waved his free hand, and the man below pulled out the drop
bar which held the door of the chute closed. Then they untied the rope from the
black's neck and swung open the door. As the beast lunged forward, Quartel
dropped into the saddle. Africano was larger than most brush horses, though not
any taller, standing maybe fifteen hands, with a prodigiously muscled rump that
indicated more than a little quarter blood, and a savage, vicious action to its
every movement. The animal boiled over almost before it had left the chute.
Quartel had not found his right stirrup as the beast erupted, but by the time
Africano hit the top of its first buck, the man's foot was in the oxbow, and
when the black stiff-legged down into the ground, Quartel was set for it. Even
then, his broad, heavy body trembled to the awful jar of it. Crawford's face
twisted, and his hands were gripping the bars of the corral with a strange
desperation. The black raced down the corral with a high, collected action and
then stopped abruptly with its forelegs jamming the ground like ramrods, pin-
wheeling in its own billow of dust. It was all balance with Quartel. Crawford
did not think he had ever seen such a relaxed seat on a bucker. The man shifted
his weight back and forth almost delicately, gauging each violent movement of
the horse to perfection. "There it goes," said Cabezablanca. Crawford rose up on
his toes against the bars. Africano had started to roll. Quartel stepped off
with an incredibly lithe movement for his heavy body, as the horse went down.
The black rolled completely over, and Quartel was there ready to swing onto its
back again as the animal came up, jamming his feet into the stirrups and raking
the animal's dusty, lathered flanks with great Mexican cart-wheel spurs. The
black screamed in a frenzied, crazy way as it realized the man was still on its
back. With a shrill whinny, it began rolling again, madly, cleverly, devilishly,
watching Quartel out of its glassy eyes, heavy chest briny with lather. Crawford
watched with a terrible fascination, unaware of how tightly he was hanging onto
the bars or how loud and harsh his heavy, labored breathing was. On its fourth
roll, Africano twisted while still on its back and switched ends before coming
up, kicking at Quartel with its hind feet. Quartel dodged the kick, shouting
something, and slapped the animal's rump to come up over the legs as they struck
the ground, hitting the saddle with a jar that drew a gasp from Crawford.
Africano raced forward, halted abruptly, pivoted on one hind foot. Quartel was
thrown off balance by the spin, and while his weight was still on the off side,
the black reared up and fell back deliberately. Quartel had to kick free and
jump to keep from being mashed beneath twelve hundred pounds of vicious black
demon, and he lost control completely. The animal came up with a triumphant
whinny, whirling toward Quartel. The dust billowed up about the dim shouting
movement filling the corral then, and Crawford could see only dimly what
happened. A red-bearded hand was galloping in on one of the cutting horses to
try and reach the black before it trampled Quartel. But the rider spun the big
loop over his head once before throwing it, and the wily black saw it coming and
wheeled away. "Damn you, Innes, why don't you go back to snagging fence posts,"
shouted Quartel, stumbling to his feet and lurching for the rope. He caught that
end and jerked it violently, almost unhorsing Innes as the rope was torn from
his hands. Then Quartel whirled around, snaking in the rope with quick, skillful
flirts until he had the other end. The red-bearded rider had wheeled and was
trying to run into Africano broadside now to force it away from Quartel. But
Africano leaped ahead, dodging the man, and wheeled toward Quartel again, that
maniacal intent plain in its bloodshot eyes. "Get out of the way," Quartel
roared hoarsely at Innes. "I swear you don't know any more about handling horses
than a woman. Get out of the way----"

The Mexicans called it a _mangana_, and not many men could have done it in such
a position. The black horse had outmaneuvered Innes, and was racing a dead run
at Quartel. Quartel stood there with the rope in both hands, not even spinning
it, a confident grin on his face. When the black was so near it looked certain
to run Quartel down, the man made his toss. It was a California throw, down low
without a spin so the horse could not spot it until the loop was actually in the
air. Quartel snapped the rope behind him at his hip, then dragged it forward
with a swift flirt of his wrist, hand pointed down and the loop swinging out so
that it practically stood on edge. It was timed perfectly. Quartel took one step
away like a bullfighter, and the _puro negro_ thundered past him, so close its
lathered shoulder twitched his _charro_ jacket, and ran headlong into that loop
standing there. Quartel turned away with the rope across his hip, and his thick
body jerked hard as the horse snapped the rope taut and fell headlong. Then he
casually dropped the rope to the ground and walked away, while other hands ran
in with the short tie ropes they called peales, to hog-tie the vicious beast
while it was still down. Crawford realized only then how his fingers ached. He
released them from the cedar-post bar. His shirt was sticking to his back with
sweat, and he heard that heavy, labored breathing. Him? And something else. The
same thing he had known on that cow pony up by San Antonio. Not pain exactly,
though there were those little spasms twitching at his legs. But something more
insidious than that, down in his belly somewhere, a thin, nauseating
consciousness. His eyes went to the black horse, still kicking and squealing as
they hog-tied it within the corral, and a new wave of it swept him. He turned
away, clenching his teeth, trying to drown it with anger. Then he became aware
of how Cabezablanca was looking at him. "What's the matter, Crawford? You look
like it was you riding the African instead of Quartel." The white-headed man
waited, that sly grin fading as he saw Crawford was not going to speak. He
indicated the house, finally, with the tip of his Winchester. "Let's go. Maybe
Huerta will want to see you." "But I've already seen him," said a heavy, jaded
voice from behind them. "I've been watching him for some time now." *       *
*       *       *

The overdrapes of green striped satin had been pulled aside from the front
windows of the dining-room to let the last shafts of afternoon sunlight cross
the dark Empire Aubusson and gleam brazenly on the brass-headed nails which
studded the green morocco upholstering of the chairs. The man who had stood
behind Crawford and Cabezablanca at the corrals was Doctor Feliz Huerta, and he
followed Crawford into the dining-room now. Crawford did not think he had ever
seen such infinite dissolution in a face. The minute pattern of blood vessels
was faintly visible in Huerta's heavy lids, giving them a bluish cast. His eyes,
when they were visible behind these lids, held a dull, jaded lackluster in their
black pupils, and his flesh was smooth and soft-looking, lined about the mouth
and eyes like an old satchel. His black hair was parted in the middle, graying
at the temples and receding there to form a peak down his forehead which, added
to the strong arch of his brows, gave his features a satanic cast. "You may go
now, Whitehead," he said. Cabezablanca shifted uncomfortably. "Listen, you don't
seem to understand. This is Glenn Crawford----"

It seemed to cause Huerta infinite effort to turn toward the man. For a moment,
their eyes met. Whitehead's mouth was still open from his words, and he drew a
small, surprised breath through it. Then he began to back out of the room.
Huerta moved his glance around to Crawford when Cabezablanca had left. "They say
he is a very dangerous man," he murmured, moving languidly to the old English
sideboard. Lifting one of the brass rings on the top drawer, he pulled it open,
taking a silver plate out and putting it on top. There was a small pile of
reddish beans, and he selected one from this, popping it into his mouth. "You'll
excuse me. An old complaint." Crawford could retain it no longer. "What kind of
horse you on?" Huerta's face revealed some small surprise. "I thought you might
like to have dinner with us. Jacinto will bring it in a few moments." "No," said
Crawford, moving his hand viciously. "Something else. What is it, Huerta? What
are you doing here?" One of Huerta's sardonic black brows lifted quizzically.
"You are such a suspicious man, Crawford. I have known Otis Rockland for some
time. He invited me to visit him. I arrived to find him murdered in San Antonio.
It was quite a shock. Ah--" his glance had passed Crawford and was focused on
the doorway--"Merida, Wallace, I'm glad you've come. We have a dinner guest."
Crawford turned around. Wallace Tarant had been Otis Rockland's lawyer a long
time, and Crawford knew him well enough. But it was the woman who commanded his
attention. Her beauty struck him with such an impact that he felt a distinct
physical reaction pass through his body. Not many women could have worn their
hair in such a severe coif without detracting from their allure. It was so black
it looked blue, parted in the center and drawn back to a shimmering bun at the
nape of her neck. It gave accent to the faintly exotic planes of her face. Her
only jewelry was a large cabochon emerald in an onyx brooch that rode the mature
swell of her breasts just below the low-cut top of her black silk dress. Her
slightly oblique eyes held a candid interest, meeting his. The blood thickened
in his throat. A vague irritation swept Crawford that she should affect him so
strongly. "This is Merida Lopez, Crawford," said Huerta. "She came with me from
Mexico City." "Crawford." It escaped her on a throaty breath, and those large
black eyes took in the tense line of his body, and a faint smile stirred her
rich lips. "I imagined you, somewhat--like this." Wallace Tarant took a step
that placed him at the woman's side. He had a broad-shouldered, narrow-hipped
frame that looked good in his tailored town coat. His face, with its square brow
and wide, thin-lipped mouth, should have held a palpable strength. But his eyes
would not meet Crawford's. His voice was small for such a large man. "What's the
idea, Huerta?" he said. "Whitehead found him in the brush watching the house,"
said Huerta. "I thought perhaps we might like a little talk with him. You, as
Rockland's lawyer, should appreciate the value of that." "Isn't it a little
dangerous," said Tarant. "I think Crawford knows how little chance there is of
escape," said Huerta. "By whatever door a man leaves this house, he has to cross
several hundred yards of open compound before reaching the protection of the
brush. At the present moment, there are half a dozen men out there, just waiting
for the chance. As for his presence among us, you aren't afraid of him, are you,
Wallace?" Tarant flushed, moved stiffly to pull out a chair for Merida. Crawford
could not tell if it was deliberate, but in passing him the woman's body touched
his hip. His whole frame stiffened with the momentary, warm, silken pressure,
and he could not help the sharp breath he drew. Then she was by, and he saw the
faint, ironic smile twitch at Huerta's lips. Crawford turned angrily toward the
table, but before he could reach a chair, the whole room began to tremble. He
knew who was coming before the man appeared. Jacinto del Rio had cooked for the
Rocklands as long as anyone in the brush could remember. The three dominating
factors of his life were apparent enough as he rumbled into the doorway from the
entrance hall. His prodigious belly was a remarkable edifice to _tortillas_ and
frijoles. The blue network of broken veins patterning his flushed jowls
indicated a singular capacity for tequila and pulque. The reluctance of his
every movement reflected his veritable passion for the national pastime of
siesta. He held a great silver tureen of soup on a tray high before his face,
and it prevented him from seeing Crawford at first. "_Trabajo, trabajo_," he
grumbled, "always work. First it's breakfast in the bunkhouse. 'Hyacinth cook
some more eggs.' 'Hyacinth this coffee tastes like alkali.' Hyacinth this,
Hyacinth that. Then breakfast for the big house. 'Hyacinth you're late.'
'Hyacinth you didn't put enough clabber in the biscuits.' Hyacinth this,
Hyacinth that. Me, who was made for nothing but wassail and song and laughter,
sweating like an _esclavo_ all my life. You know what my father he tell me?"
"Yes, yes," said Huerta wearily. "If you don't set that tray down soon we'll be
eating breakfast instead of dinner." "He tell me, 'Hyacinth, there are two sins
in the world--working and fighting, working and fighting--and if you avoid both
of them, you will surely go to heaven.'" Jacinto set the tray down, his eyes
rolling upward in a fat face. "Por Dios! it looks like I'll never get there now.
My poor _padre_ must be turning over in his grave to see how I have desecrated
his wishes. To think of me, little Hyacinth of the River, meant for nothing
but----"

His eyes had focused on Crawford for the first time, and his words ended in a
bleat. He held up a fat hand, trying to say something, but nothing would come
out. He turned toward Huerta, sweat rolling down his face with his effort to
speak. He whirled back to Crawford, his whole body twitching. Then he looked to
Huerta again. "_Por Dios!_" he croaked. "Doctor. Please. Crawford. That's him. I
was born for laughter and wassail and song. You aren't going to do anything. How
did he get here? No _violencia_. Please. My delicate sensibilities would revolt.
You won't--"

"My dear Hyacinth," said Huerta. "There won't, I assure you, be any violence.
Now please go and bring the rest of the meal." Jacinto backed out of the room,
sputtering, and Huerta's sardonic glance slipped around to Crawford. "Won't you
sit down? You make me nervous." Crawford moved across to pull out a chair across
from the woman, feeling her eyes on him, and lowered his tense body onto the
green morocco leather. They were all watching him now. "Would you serve,
Wallace?" said Huerta, leaning back in his chair. He surveyed Crawford for a
moment. "You know," he said finally, "most people think your motive for killing
Otis Rockland was revenge. But somehow, that doesn't satisfy us." "Doesn't it?"
said Crawford. The woman's laugh was as throaty as her voice. It caused his
glance to shift to her face with a jerk. She sat there with that smile, making
no effort to explain her amusement. It drew a reasonless anger from him. He
gripped his knees with his hands, beneath the linen cloth. "Did you ever hear
the story of Santa Anna's chests, Mr. Crawford?" Merida Lopez asked, finally, a
strange, obscure mockery coloring her voice. "No," answered Crawford stiffly.
She tasted her soup, eyes still on him. "In April of 1826, at the close of the
Texas Revolution, General Santa Anna had led his Mexican army halfway across
Texas after General Houston's forces, finally catching him at San Jacinto. There
were two major political parties in Mexico at that time, the Federalists and the
Centralists. The Centralists had been trying for some time to break Santa Anna's
growing power in politics. For four or five months they had managed to have the
army pay withheld, but Santa Anna finally got a pay train sent from Mexico City.
The battle of San Jacinto was in progress when this mule train arrived, and a
party of Texans cut it off before it could reach the Mexican army, chasing it
westward into the brush somewhere south of the Nueces. The Texans finally caught
the Mexicans, and in the battle that followed the greater part of the Mexicans
were killed. But the mules had disappeared. They have not been found since."
"Neither has the Lost Nigger Mine, or Steinheimer's millions," said Crawford. "I
been listening to windies like that since I was a button." "Ah, a skeptic."
Again that mockery, more palpable this time. She toyed with her soupspoon. The
faint movement of her wrist drew his glance, and he found himself wondering how
the soft white skin would feel. "And still, Crawford, doesn't it intrigue you?"
Her voice penetrated his attention, and he raised his gaze self-consciously.
Just her hand. Just the movement of her hand like that. What the hell? "Five
months' pay for an army, Crawford. Does a man like you have any conception of
that kind of money? Men would kill for it. Even governments. And there is more
than just the story. There is what the Mexicans call a _derrotero_." She let her
eyes lift momentarily from the spoon, but he had kept his face carefully blank.
He was beginning to notice her enunciation now. The accent was discernible
sometimes. Her careful precision seemed an effort to hide it. "This
_derrotero_," she said. "Literally a map, a chart. It was made by the captain of
the mule train. When he realized the Texans would inevitably catch him, he
secreted the pay chests somewhere in the brush, making the chart. Fearing that,
if he entrusted the whole of the chart to one man, that man might be captured,
he divided it into three portions. Thus, if one or even two of the men were
caught, the chests would still be safe, for the hiding place could not be
located without all three portions. One section he sent with an Indian to Santa
Anna himself at San Jacinto. The second part he gave to his lieutenant, to carry
to the Federalists in Mexico City. The third he kept himself." "Yeah?" said
Crawford. "Yes," she said, smiling in dim amusement at his acrid reticence. For
a moment, her eyes were half-closed, studying him, and they held a slumberous,
provocative temptation. It stirred something primal within him. He had felt it
before. But not this way. Not just looking in a woman's eyes. "The captain of
that mule train was the uncle of your friend Pio Delcazar!" It went through him
with a palpable shock, and it was not till after she had finished speaking that
Crawford realized what she had been doing, with those eyes. They had turned hard
and speculative, now, and with the spell broken, Crawford felt the twisted
expression her words had drawn to his face. He tried to regain that
inscrutability, but knew it was too late. There was a certain triumphant
satisfaction in the way Merida allowed her gaze to drop to the table as she
began eating the soup again. And now the two men were watching him. He felt the
sweat break out on his palms. "_Carne adobada, carne adobada?_" said Jacinto,
waddling in. "You don't know how long I pickled it in brine. I fry the spices
and chile till the juices stream out of the pork, and--" he trailed off, seeing
how they were all watching Crawford. He turned to Huerta, wringing his fingers.
"Doctor, please, I beseech you--"

"The coffee, Hyacinth, the coffee," murmured Huerta, waving a languid hand at
the cook without looking away from Crawford. Jacinto almost choked on the breath
he took, and backed out, staring wide-eyed at Crawford. "_Sí._ The _café_.
_Sí._"

Tarant began to serve the meat dish Jacinto had brought. "When you had that
ruckus with Rockland in the living-room here, Bueno Bailey said it was over
Delcazar," he said. "You know what it was over," said Crawford. "You got Del's
land for Rockland that way." Huerta leaned forward slightly. "Was it just the
land?" "Del's my _compadre_," said Crawford. "You're Mexican. You know what the
word is." "Crawford," said Huerta, bending farther forward, "we should, of
course, send you back to San Antonio. But there are other things which could be
done." "You're riding a muddy creek." "A colloquialism," murmured the woman.
"How quaint." Crawford's narrow, dark head turned toward her with an angry jerk.
She was watching him from beneath her brows in that mocking way, chin tucked in,
and it formed a small crease in the rich flesh beneath her jaw. There was
something concupiscent about it. "We think your quarrel with Rockland was over
more than the way he acquired Delcazar's land," said Huerta. Crawford found it
difficult to take his eyes off Merida. "Do you?" "Oh, Huerta," the woman
muttered petulantly, "can't you see you'll never get anywhere beating about the
bush with him--"

"You'll never get anywhere with him anyway," said Wallace Tarant. "I know Glenn
Crawford, Huerta. We'd better send him back to San Antonio right now." "Oh, no,"
said Huerta, leaning back. "Not at all. I think if we kept him here long enough,
we would find a way of convincing him that it is to his advantage to--ah--" he
moved his hand, as if seeking the word--"cooperate, with us. Yes. Co-operate.
Don't you, Merida?" The woman's laugh held a husky sensuality. "Perhaps. Even if
not--it would be interesting." Wallace Tarant put down his fork angrily. "Don't
be a fool, Huerta. Having Crawford here is like sitting on a keg of powder with
a lighted match. What would Kenmare do if he found we'd caught Crawford and
hadn't notified the authorities?" "Kenmare won't find out," said Huerta, turning
toward the man, "unless someone tells him. Ah, our coffee." Jacinto set the urn
down hesitantly, glaring about at them. He started to speak, then caught
Huerta's eye, and backed out of the room, muttering to himself. Smiling faintly,
Huerta indicated that Tarant should pour. Then he held out a cup. "Mexican
style, Crawford. Perhaps you'll like it. Boiled in milk and water and sweetened
in the pot with _poloncillo_, our brown sugar. I was surprised to find how few
of the hands here drank it like this. I know Quartel sweetens it with molasses
sometimes." His eyes dropped to his own cup, and he stirred it absently.
"Speaking of Quartel, that was quite an exhibition this afternoon, wasn't it? I
don't think I've ever seen such a vicious horse. And what a magnificent beast a
man would have if he could break it." He looked up abruptly. "Oh, excuse me,
Crawford, I--" he moved his hand in an apologetic gesture--"I wasn't thinking--"

The woman frowned at him. "Hm?" "The horse," said Huerta, looking at Merida,
"the horse." "What about the horse?" she said. "I don't mean that," said Huerta.
"I--"

"Never mind," said Crawford. "My legs are all right." "Oh?" Huerta's arched
brows rose. "I got a different impression. You weren't riding." "I lost my horse
on the Flores Road." "It was hit?" "I lost it, that's all," said Crawford. "Oh."
Huerta took out a jade cigarette holder, fitting a smoke into it. He leaned
back, looking at Crawford. "You were watching Africano out in the corral, that
way." "What about the way I was watching it?" Huerta's eyes dropped meditatively
to the coffee cup, and he allowed twin streamers of smoke to leave his nostrils.
"I guess I got the wrong impression, Crawford. You'll have to pardon me."
"Impression about what, Huerta?" said Tarant. Huerta seemed to rouse himself
with an effort. "Ah, nothing. Nothing, Tarant. You're not drinking your coffee,
Crawford. Is it too sweet for you? Pour him another cup, Tarant." The woman was
watching him narrowly now, and Huerta let his eyes meet hers momentarily before
he leaned forward to put his elbows on the table. He took a sip of his own
coffee, looking down the middle of the table in that meditation again. "They say
a man is getting old when he starts reminiscing, but I can't help being reminded
of an instance I ran across in Monterrey some years ago. After the war I chanced
to be employed by a Mexican firm with interests in a mine north of the city. I
had been company doctor some months when one of the lower shafts caved in,
killing half a dozen of the men. I managed to patch up most of those who escaped
with minor injuries. There was one miner, a huge giant of a fellow, whose legs
had been crushed somewhat beneath the slide. My operations were singularly
successful, and within five or six months he was as good as new, the bones knit
perfectly and the muscles gave no sign of the damage. During his convalescence,
there had been no pain. Yet, the very first day he went back to work, he
experienced the most acute agony in his legs." The little muscles jumped out all
along Crawford's jaw suddenly. Huerta looked up, smiled faintly. "Yes--the most
acute agony. I could find nothing organically wrong with him, absolutely
nothing. In my office, he did not feel the pain. I took him back to the mine. As
he approached the mouth of the shaft in which he had worked, the agony returned.
All the symptoms of genuine pain. Sweating, trembling, tears in the eyes. I
could not account for it. There was utterly no reason for him to feel the pain.
I administered drugs, enough to deaden the greatest agony. It had no effect.
Then I took him away from the mine. As soon as it was out of sight, the pain
receded, disappeared." Merida's face had lifted as he spoke, a tight furrow
appearing between her brows. "You mean--his mind--"

"_Sí_," said Huerta. He was adjusting a fresh cigarette carefully in its holder.
"I came to that conclusion finally. The mind plays funny tricks on us sometimes.
That cave-in had been such a ghastly experience that he actually felt pain when
he returned to the scene. And worse than the pain. Fear. He could never work at
his trade again; he could never get near a mine without feeling that pain. And
that fear. He tried to fight it. He had been a brave man once. He tried to force
himself back into the mines. But in the shaft he became a sniveling, gibbering
coward, crying and puking like a baby, unable to speak coherently even. Yes, the
mind does play funny tricks on us--" Huerta held his cigarette holder out
abruptly. "Crawford, you've spilled your coffee!" _Chapter Three_

HUERTA WAS RIGHT! The bunkhouse and cookshack stood a few hundred yards south of
the house, two adobe structures connected by a covered dog-run. Rockland's
father had put them up to live in while his large dwelling was being built,
constructing their walls not with mud bricks but by the older Indian method of
making forms out of willow shoots and cotton sheeting, pouring the mud into
these forms, and peeling off the cotton after the adobe had dried. Unless these
walls were replastered every six months or so, they began to crack, and the
inside of the cookshack was already beginning to show a network of minute
fissures across its whitewashed surface. It was here Crawford had spent the
night, an oppressive sense of the hostility which surrounded him keeping him
from much sleep. After breakfast, all the crew had left the bunkhouse but Bueno
Bailey. He was gaunt as an alley cat, and he parted his long yellow hair in the
middle and slicked it down with bacon grease, and he sat in the stilling morning
heat of the shack, idly spinning the cylinder of his six-shooter. "Will you stop
that, Bueno?" snapped Crawford. Bailey looked up at Crawford, who had been
standing against the doorpost, staring outside. "I've seen cattle look out
between the bars of a pen that same way, Glenn," he said, putting his long
forefinger against the cylinder of his gun to give it another, deliberate whirl.
"You don't need to get ideas. Why do you think they left me here?" "I'll bite,"
said Crawford. "Why?" "They haven't decided what to do with you yet," murmured
Bailey. "Tarant was for taking you right back to San Antonio, but Huerta didn't
want that, for some reason. Either way, it's a cinch they don't want you to get
away. _Sabe?_"

"What's Huerta got to say about it?" said Crawford. "He's some friend of
Rockland's," Bueno told him. "That doesn't seem to me enough reason for the way
he assumes authority around here," Crawford muttered. "I thought Quartel was the
ramrod." "There's some kind of deal between Huerta and Tarant," Bailey answered,
giving the cylinder another spin. "Quartel's tried to buck Huerta a couple of
times and Tarant stood behind the doctor. Quartel almost lost his job the second
time. Tarant gave us the idea we'd better do what Huerta liked if we wanted to
keep on working here." Crawford glanced at the gun. "I asked you to stop that."
Bueno leaned forward on the three-legged stool, placing his elbows on his knees
to look up at Crawford. "So you had to come back, Glenn," he said. "Why?" "Maybe
I came back to pay a few debts," said Crawford thinly. The oily click of the
cylinder stopped abruptly. "You owe somebody something?" "Still snipping
cinches, Bueno?" The stool crashed to the floor, and Crawford whirled from where
he had been standing in the doorway to meet Bailey as the man came up against
him. The only thing that prevented their bodies from meeting was the gun Bailey
held against Crawford's body. The man's milky eyes were slitted, and the smell
of that bacon grease in his hair nauseated Crawford. "Chew that a little finer,"
said Bueno, through his teeth. "Africano never could have rolled me under if
that rigging hadn't come apart," Crawford said thinly. "I saw the cinch on that
saddle afterward. It hadn't pulled loose by itself." "Glenn--" Bailey let it out
on a hissing breath--"I think you better change your mind about that." "I know
who did Rockland's stable jobs for him," said Crawford. The gun dug into his
belly. "Glenn--"

"Yes?" said Crawford. "Make it a better job than that first time, Bueno." Bueno
stood there a moment longer, his breath hot and fetid against Crawford's face.
Then his weight settled back onto his heels. He turned around and set the stool
upright and lowered himself onto it once more. He began twirling the cylinder
again with his forefinger. Crawford saw it tremble against the blued steel.
"When the time comes, Crawford," said Bueno, not looking up, "I will make it a
better job, you can depend on that. I'll finish the job." The harsh laugh from
the doorway caused Crawford to turn back that way. He wondered how long Quartel
had stood there. The man moved on into the room, a pawky smile on his sensuous
lips. The pores of his cheeks and nostrils were large enough to be clearly
discernible, and they exuded a heavy sweat, lending a greasy look to the thick
brown flesh of his face. He stuck his thumbs in the waistband of his dirty
_chivarras_, leaning back slightly. "It seems that you haven't got one friend
left on the Rockland _estancia_, doesn't it, _Señor_ Crawford?" he said. "_En la
cárcel y en la cama se conocen los amigos_," said the man who had come in with
Quartel. "Did I ask for any of your stupid proverbs, Aforismo?" said Quartel.
"It is just a saying they have in Durango," said Aforismo. "In jail and in bed
we know our friends." He was a thin, stooped man, Aforismo, his white cotton
shirt soiled with dirt and horse-droppings, his eyebrows slanting upward toward
the middle of his forehead to give him a habitual expression of mournful
complaint. "Maybe you got a proverb that tells how to find out where a man pins
his badge," said Quartel, looking at Crawford. "I know one about a stitch in
time--"

"Knew a Texas Ranger once who pinned it to his undershirt," said Quartel. Bueno
Bailey had looked up. "What saddle you in now?" "It would be a good reason,"
said Quartel. "He had to have some reason." "Listen," said Bueno. "That's Glenn
Crawford. Sure he had some reason. A lot of reasons. But not that. He's--"

"I know who he is," said Quartel. "Then why--"

"Innes took Tarant back to San Antonio last night," said Quartel. "Innes heard a
lot of talk. There's rumor of a government marshal in the _brasada_." "If that's
so, it's because of Crawford," said Bueno. "Kenmare couldn't get him. I wouldn't
doubt they'd send a marshal after him." "Maybe you got it inside your boot,"
said Quartel. "What makes you so touchy about a badge-packer?" said Crawford.
Bailey had stood up. "Listen, Quartel, can't you get it through your thick
skull, whatever Crawford is, he ain't a lawman." "Isn't he?" Quartel studied
Crawford a moment. Then he threw back his head to emit that short, harsh laugh,
so loud it seemed to rock the room. It died as swiftly as it had come. His
glance dropped to Crawford's legs. "So you got reasons to come back. Africano,
maybe?" "_You_ haven't broken him," said Crawford. Quartel flushed. "I will.
There isn't any horse I can't break." "He would have rolled you if you'd been a
second later with that _mangana_ yesterday." "Well, I wasn't a second later,"
said Quartel. "Did you see that _mangana_? Nobody else could have done it so
close." He thumped his barrel chest with a hairy fist. "I'm the best damn roper
in the world, Crawford. I can rope better and ride farther and drink more and
cuss dirtier than any _hombre_ from here to Mexico City. Now let's go. I got a
lot of cattle to clean out of that brush and I'm not wasting a man here to guard
you." Jacinto had come through the covered dog-run from the kitchen in time to
hear Quartel. "The _señorita_ will not like that," he said. Quartel turned
angrily toward him. "You in Merida's _corrida_ or mine." "Yours, Quartel, _madre
de Dios_, yours," said Jacinto. "Still she won't like that. Only last night I
heard her say--"

"_Punta en boca_," said Quartel. "Shut your mouth. All right, Crawford. We got
the horses saddled." Crawford's boots made a hesitant scrape on the hard-packed
adobe floor; then he took a breath, and walked toward the door. Jacinto waddled
after him, sweat glistening in the wrinkles between the rolls of fat forming his
face. He caught Crawford's arm, trying to stop him. "Listen, _señor_," he said
breathlessly. "Don't let them take you out there. Merida is against it. I heard
her and Huerta arguing about it. Just wait till I tell her and she'll stop
Quartel. Don't let them get you out there." Quartel had moved outside to let
Crawford through the door. The heat of the sun struck him like a blow on the
face as he stepped out with Jacinto still tugging at him. "I'm telling you,
_señor_, don't be a fool. If they get you--"

"Dammittohell!" screamed Quartel, and stepped in to spin around with his arm
held out. The backhand blow caught Jacinto squarely in the face. Jacinto's hand
clutched Crawford's arm spasmodically as the blow knocked him backward, jerking
Crawford off balance. Then Jacinto's three hundred pounds of sweating brown
flesh struck the wall of the bunkhouse. The building shuddered, and a shower of
pale adobe flakes descended on the huge Mexican as he slid to the ground.
Quartel stood there a moment, his face diffused with blood till it looked
positively negroid, his whole body shaking with rage. For the first time, the
utter, primal violence of the man struck Crawford. Without a word, Quartel
turned and walked across the compound. The true suffocation in all this heat
seemed to close in on Crawford as he moved to follow Quartel. He found himself
breathing with a heavy effort. Cabezablanca was standing by the group of horses
near the corral. The white-headed man held his Winchester tenderly. "How are
you, Crawford?" he said softly. Crawford glanced at him without answering, and
Cabezablanca's eyes narrowed and he ran one finger up and down the gleaming
barrel of his carbine. "You still refuse to be civil with me. That is
unfortunate. I am a very dangerous man, Crawford." "That's your horse." Quartel
nodded at a ewe-necked old paint standing near the corral fence. It had rheumy
eyes and rope scars all over its gaunt shoulders and a saddleback the shape of
hickory bow and the weediest legs Crawford had ever laid eyes on. Yet, standing
even this near the animal, Crawford could feel that nebulous excitation begin to
rise in him. Or was it excitation? The sweat broke out on his palms. In a sudden
burst of anger, he clamped his fists shut. "What kind of crowbait is this?" he
said. Quartel shrugged. "I thought--I mean your legs--"

"I told you that was over." Crawford did not know whether the anger was at
himself or at Quartel. He might not have said it under more control. "I can ride
anything you can!" "Africano?" said Quartel. He saw Crawford stiffen and grow
pale, and his laugh had a scraping sound. "Never mind, Crawford, never mind. You
won't have to fork the _puro negro_. He ain't broke yet. You saw that
yesterday." Then the laughter left Quartel. He jerked a thumb at the paint. "Get
on." "The hell." Crawford had bent forward slightly, his whole body rigid. That
bitter intensity had drawn the flesh taut across his cheeks beneath his scrubby
beard. He turned abruptly toward the corral. "Where you going?" shouted Quartel.
"To get a decent horse," said Crawford, without turning back. "You want to try
and stop me?" *       *       *       *       *

He was sweating again. It was a little sorrel pony with a running walk so
relaxed Crawford could hear the teeth pop at every step like a Tennessee walker,
and a rocking-chair would have been harder on a man. Yet he was sweating again.
"They say the _hombres_ who curse the _brasada_ most love it the best," said
Aforismo. "You must love it like a woman." Crawford turned his head sharply
toward the man. He hadn't realized he had been swearing out loud. It hadn't been
at the brush. It was so confused now, inside and out. It was hard to breathe,
and the muscles across his stomach were tight as a stretched dally, and he could
feel the pain spreading from his hips. _All the symptoms of genuine pain._ Was
that what Huerta had said? _Sweating, trembling, tears in the eyes._ The
doctor's voice was in his ears, suave, insidious. _The mind plays funny tricks
sometimes._ It couldn't be. Not his mind. Not _my_ mind, Huerta, not _my_ mind.
"Yeah," grinned Bueno Bailey, forking a big dun on Crawford's other side. "There
never was a man could cuss the brush like Crawford. I'd rather listen to him
talking his way through a _mogote_ of chaparral than hear music." Crawford
hardly heard him. The perspiration was sticky beneath his armpits, his shirt
clung to his back with it. And now it was that other, stirring in him, so
confused with the pain at first he could not define it, or would not--the same
thing he had felt there at the corral, watching Africano. _And worse than the
pain._ No. He wasn't afraid. _I'm not afraid, Huerta._ How could he be? _How
could I be? Living with horses all my life. How could I be?_

"Take it easy," snapped Bueno. "What's the matter?" Crawford jerked the reins
against his horse, realizing he had allowed it to sidle into the dun. The sorrel
shifted uncertainly the other way, thumping into Aforismo's animal. This time
Crawford's reining was even more violent and it caused the sorrel to shy.
Crawford was clenching his teeth now with the effort at control. His knees were
like vises against the animal's sides. Just a trot, and his knees were like
vises. _Oh, damn you, Crawford. Just a trot, and you're bouncing like a satchel
in a spring buggy._ He felt a desperate relief sweep him as Quartel drew up
ahead of them, running a finger around the inside of the red bandanna he wore.
"God, it's like a furnace," he said. "The drier the spring the more mesquite
beans in the summer," said Aforismo. Quartel glanced keenly at Crawford, then
waved his hand at a big thicket of black chaparral starting a few yards away.
"That _mogote_ covers two or three miles. We been through once, but it's so
thick a lot of the _cimarrónes_ got away from us. Crawford is riding with Bailey
and me. Whitehead, you take a line through the north flank of the _mogote_. Meet
us at Rio Diablo about sundown." Cabezablanca looked at Crawford before he
wheeled his horse and trotted off into the brush, followed by Aforismo. Quartel
forked a big brown animal with white hairs in its tail; they called it a
_pelicano_. He reined the horse violently around, flapping his stirrups out
wide. He did not have to kick the animal. As soon as the _pelicano_ saw those
feet fly out, it bolted into a wild gallop straight for the thicket. Crawford
nudged the sorrel with a heel and followed, stiffening in the saddle as he broke
into a trot. Quartel made a great ripping sound tearing through the first thin
fringe of mesquite. Then they were in the dry heat of the thicket. There was no
more wily animal in the world than the _ladino_ of the _brasada_. These outlaw
cattle made nests for themselves in the thickest _mogoles_, lying there for days
at a time when hunted, their food the very thicket that surrounded them. They
ate off the prickly pear and other brush within the _mogote_ until it formed a
veritable room, with the walls and roof of entangled chaparral and mesquite so
dense that they were invisible from without. This larger thicket the men rode
through was in reality formed by many smaller thickets, with game trails and
open patches throughout the thinner brush surrounding the minor _mogotes_.
Quartel followed one of these game trails for some time without any apparent
effort to find sign. Then, abruptly, he pulled up on his reins. The heavy
_pelicano_ reared to an instant's stop, head jerking up to the brutal jerk on
its cruel spade bit. Quartel leaned toward the _mogote_ of black chaparral and
Crawford was close enough now to see the man's thick nostrils flutter.
"_Cimarrónes_ in here," whispered the Mexican, finally. "Outlaws. You go around
to the other side, Bueno. You'll get the first chance at whatever Crawford and I
scare out from here." Bailey pulled his dun around and cut through an opening
between this smaller _mogote_ and another, disappearing. Quartel wiped sweat off
his face with the back of his hand. He grinned pawkily at Crawford. "How's the
sorrel?" he said. "Good enough," said Crawford. He tried to relax. But he knew
what was coming. It would be fast now. If there were _ladinos_ in there, it
would be fast. "Hola!" Quartel's hoarse shout startled the sorrel so much it
almost pitched Crawford off. Grabbing wildly with his legs, Crawford saw the
Mexican's stirrups flapped out that way. The _pelicano_ bolted into a headlong
gallop and crashed bodily into that dense mass of chaparral, ripping a great
hole in the _mogote_. Crawford knew a moment's painful hesitation, fighting his
spooked sorrel, then he gave the animal its head and booted it in the flanks.
The horse went through the hole Quartel had left. The brush formed but a thin
wall, and the sorrel burst into the opening beyond with a startling abruptness.
In these first few moments Crawford felt nothing but a blurred impression of
externals. He saw Quartel's _pelicano_ ahead, trailing white brush from its
scarred hide and dripping mesquite berries in its wake. He had a vivid picture
of three gaunt cattle leaping to their feet beyond, and knew a faint, transitory
surprise that he should notice such an insignificant detail as the hair rubbed
off the knees of the white heifer, showing that she had been crawling the brush
instead of walking, in order to remain hidden from the recent roundup. Then the
trio of _cimarrónes_ had wheeled away from Quartel's horse and crashed through
the opposite wall. The deafening sound and the swift, blinding movement stunned
Crawford's senses as he went through after Quartel. "_Bueno!_" screamed Bailey,
appearing from somewhere beyond with his dally rope spinning in a California
throw, coming up from underneath so it would not catch on the overhanging brush,
"_bueno_," the loop snaking about the forefeet of the lead steer. The ground
shook as the steer went down and Bailey's horse was stiff-legging to a stop,
Bailey swinging down to run for the kicking steer with a peal. He had done the
whole thing with such incredible speed that before Crawford had passed, Bailey
had the steer's hind legs hog-tied with the short rawhide peal and was dragging
him to a coma tree, where he would leave him hitched until they were ready to
take him back to the spread. Then Bailey was behind, and Quartel and Crawford
were smashing through a thin stretch of mesquite after the other two. No riding
in the world could compare with popping the brush. A _brasadero_ might easily
take a job on a spread outside the brush and make good, but a hand used to the
prairies seldom succeeded in becoming a brush hand. It took consummate skill to
ride at a dead run through the brush after cattle like this. And Quartel had
that skill. Ahead of Crawford, he made a bobbing swaying figure on that big
_pelicano_, rarely holding his seat on top of the saddle, incessantly swinging
off to the side or ducking down forward or jerking back and forth. The two
_ladinos_ raced beneath a post oak branch so low it scraped hide off their
backs, and Crawford expected to see Quartel rein violently around it. But the
Mexican merely swung one leg off and hung down the side of his horse like an
Indian, his thick right arm hooked over the _pelicano's_ neck. The oak branch
knocked Quartel's sombrero off his head--he would have lost it but for the tie-
thong--and tore at the cantle of the saddle so violently the whole rigging
shrieked. There was a great mass of thorny junco just beyond the tree, growing
as high as the _pelicano's_ head, and a less skillful man would have been ripped
to bloody shreds before he got back onto the saddle. Crawford could hear
Quartel's violent grunt and thought sure the man was swinging up too soon and
would be knocked back down by that branch. But Quartel had gauged it to a
nicety. His spasmodic lurch upward took him back into the saddle just in time.
The junco merely scraped his left leg as he thundered by. "Hola," he shouted
wildly, "hola, you crazy _cimarrónes_, I'm right on your tail, hola!" Something
within Crawford rebelled as he neared that spot Quartel had passed through. He
felt his hands tugging on the reins, and the sorrel lost all its collection,
thrown off balance as it tried to pull out of its mad gallop into a trot.
Crawford was panting in a heavy, frustrated way as he shifted through the spot
beneath the post oak branch and past the junco bush. And now it was strong
enough in him to have a palpable grip, like a great hand squeezing his vitals.
The first action had been violent enough to carry him along with it, but now
that was over, and slowing like that had been the final error. The muscles
across his stomach were knotting with nervous tension, and his legs quivered
against the side of the sorrel. He leaned forward, and the horse gathered itself
to break into a gallop ahead. But somehow he could not move his feet against the
animal's side. Somehow his hands would not relax their hold on the reins.
"What's the matter, Crawford?" It was Bueno Bailey, tearing in from behind, and
Crawford realized he had been sobbing to himself, huddled over his horse that
way. "Nothing, damn you, nothing," he shouted and booted the sorrel so hard it
whinnied in surprise and pain, rearing up and then bolting headlong after
Quartel. Crawford had one more glimpse of the Mexican before he disappeared from
sight, chousing after those two animals. A malignant branch of chaparral reached
out for Quartel's head, and he dodged that and then swayed back the other way in
time to miss being blinded by a clump of mesquite berries. Then he reined his
horse around a growth of prickly pear and swung down off the flank as the animal
burst through a last dense growth of chaparral with branches so low the
_ladinos_ had found trouble going through, and then he was out of sight. _Keep
your eyes open, keep your eyes open._ It kept spinning through Crawford's head
like that, the fundamental dictum of brush-popping. If a man closed his eyes
once he was lost. Crawford had seen more than one hand knocked from his horse
because a branch appearing suddenly out of nowhere had caused him to shut his
eyes and dodge blindly. The sorrel was going at a frenzied, headlong pace now,
caught up in the wild excitement of the chase, with the drumming pound of Bueno
Bailey's dun off to the flank and the deafening crash of mesquite and chaparral
echoing about them. All he could do was dodge and duck. He found himself
gripping the horn with one white-knuckled hand. Cursing bitterly, he tore it
off, jerking violently aside just in time to miss being raked by a thick mat of
mesquite. And all the time it was going through him, _keep your eyes open_, and
he couldn't. A branch of chaparro _prieto_ loomed before his face and he jerked
aside and blackness blotted out sight. He heard someone yelling and did not know
it was himself till he had opened his eyes again. It could not have been from
pain because he had missed the chaparro. But the instant he opened his eyes,
leaning off to one side that way, junco and retama were clawing at his face.
With his eyes open he would have been able to see them in time to dodge. As it
was, the myriad claws of the allthorn raked his flesh like the stroke of a
jaguar's paw. Again his eyes clamped shut, and he tore himself out of the
tangle. If it had been a post oak it would have knocked him off. He did not know
whether the screams were inside his head now or whether he actually voiced them.
He felt his hands jerking desperately on the reins, but the sorrel was running
wild, and he had lost control of the horse as well as himself. He was swept with
violent, spasmodic waves of virulent anger at himself and pain that grew more
knifing each time it struck from his loins and fear that turned his mind to a
kaleidoscope of uncontrolled sensations. He was clinging with both hands to the
horn now, his eyes closed, sobbing and screaming. The sorrel sideswiped a post
oak. A low branch knocked Crawford backward with the blow. He reeled back to an
upright position, swimming in a stunned agony. Somewhere, dimly, in what was
left of his consciousness he realized there was only one thing to do. If he
tried to keep on the horse any longer this way he would be battered into pulp.
Yet, knowing it, there was no will left in him to act. Even that swift thought
of it caused a new spasm of awful fear. Reeling, swaying, his eyes clamped shut,
his ducking jacket ripped and torn, he rode on madly through the thicket. He
crashed through a mesquite thicket, and the brush clawed his cheeks to shreds.
Chaparral beat him aside time and time again. His screams were hoarse and
incoherent now, hardly human. The lathered, frothing wild-eyed horse was in a
frenzy, its hoofs drumming the ground in a dim tattoo beneath the deafening,
incessant crash of brush. Then that last blow caught him, square across the
belly. It must have been a low branch. His desperate grip was torn from the
saddle horn, and he was swept over the cantle and off the sorrel's rump, doubled
over. He had one lucid thought before his head struck the ground, blotting out
all thought. Huerta was right! _Chapter Four_

UNREASONING FEAR

Dusk held its own singular aspect. There was something hushed about the brush at
this time. Not the dead oppressive silence of noon. There were many small
sounds, but the bizarre, velvety clutch of twilight seemed to subdue them. A
hooty owl called tentatively from a hackberry down in some yonder draw. An
invisible jack rabbit made a dim, staccato thump hopping through a distant
clearing, then halted. Nearer by a lizard rustled sibilantly through the foot-
deep layer of decaying brush, which for eons had been dropping from the bushes
to pile up on the ground. It was these sounds, one by one, which impinged on
Glenn Crawford's consciousness. Then the fetid odor of the mold beneath him. His
face felt stiff and painful. It caused him a great effort to reach up to his
cheek. The rips and tears made great gaps in his beard and his whole face was
covered with dried blood. Finally he sat up, shaking his head dully. Three
hours? Four hours? What time had it been? It was hard to think. He shook his
head again. Early afternoon anyway. And this was--

That brought him up straight. They hadn't found him? It was strange. It was
wrong, somehow. They hadn't found him. Wrong. They were better trackers than
that. All of them. If Quartel could ride like that he could track like that. He
got up with great difficulty and fell down again. His head was spinning. When he
got to his knees once more, the shreds of his ducking jacket bound his arms, and
when he fell that second time, he went full on his face, unable to get his hands
in front of him. In a fit of anger he tore the remains of the jacket off. The
third time he managed to remain upright. As he stood there, the first thought of
the horse came to him. He felt that pain begin in his loins. Just the thought of
it! With a sobbing curse he broke into a stumbling run at the first thicket of
brush. He halted himself before he had reached the _mogote_. He was breathing
heavily and his lips were pinched. He held out his hand before him. It shook
visibly. He closed his eyes a moment, face twisted. Then he took a deep breath
and opened them again, staring about the clearing. There was a great torn place
in one thicket on the other side. He moved over there at a deliberate walk. The
hole in the brush was big enough to walk through; beyond that was another open
patch and then a second small thicket torn asunder by the passage of a heavy
body. It was full night by the time he found the sorrel that way, following the
trail it had made bursting through the brush. The animal stood in a clearing,
head hanging wearily, dried lather forming dirty yellow patterns on its freshly
scarred hide. Crawford was about to step into the open when he caught himself.
There was a dim rustling in the brush to his left. His face turned that way
sharply. The noise ceased after a moment. He shook his head and went out to get
the horse. "Stand still, you crazy fool," he said, "stand still now, I'm not
going to hurt you, just stand still, that's it, hold it." The animal had started
to shift away, but his soothing voice quieted it. He moved in close and ran his
hand reassuringly along its rump and down its side. Then, as he stood with his
face toward it that way, close enough so that the heat of its body reached his
belly, it began to come again. That insidious, stirring, prickling sensation
deep in his loins. That hollow sickness growing in his stomach till it
approached nausea; the sweat breaking out on his face and beneath his armpits.
The curse had a strangled sound in his throat, as he bent to get the trailing
reins. He wouldn't walk back to the spread. No matter what else, he wouldn't
give them that satisfaction. He stopped, with his hand not yet touching the end
of the reins. Even in the dark, bending over like that, he could see the
footprints. The sorrel's hoofs had made their dim impression all over the
decaying vegetation covering the gound. But here and there, where the horse had
not blotted it out, was a smaller, deeper imprint, like that of a boot heel. He
remained stooped over it for a moment that way. Then, slowly, he started to lift
the reins. They were caught on something. He reached down and found the ends
tied about a long stake of wood embedded deeply beneath the rotting brush.
Crawford slipped the reins off the stick and rose beside the horse. Slowly he
put his weight against its neck. His breath had a small, swift sound. The horse
gradually shifted around under that pressure until it stood broadside between
Crawford and the direction that small rustling had come from when he first
entered the thicket. "Now." He spoke to the horse softly, sliding his hands up
the reins till they were directly beneath the bit, and pulling gently forward.
"Let's go. Let's go. Take it easy. Let's go." The animal moved toward the fringe
of brush surrounding the clearing. Crawford walked close in by its side, tugging
incessantly forward on the reins, talking in that soft low tone. The animal's
hoofs crackled in the brush underfoot. It snorted once, pulling peevishly at his
tight grip on the shanks of the bit. He twisted them upward slightly and the
horse responded to the bit against its roof, quieting. They had almost reached
the edge of the _mogote_ when the shot crashed. The horse was jerked over
against Crawford by the force of the bullet going through its body. Then it
reared into the air, screaming. Desperately Crawford tried to retain his hold on
the reins, yanking the horse on ahead, throwing the whole weight of his body
into it. He managed to fight the plunging, rearing animal a couple more steps
toward the brush. Then the beast's violent spasms tore his grip loose of the
reins. With the animal still forming a shield in that last instant, he threw
himself in a headlong dive for the thicket. Another shot roared behind him, and
the horse screamed again, and then Crawford was rolling into the crackling,
tearing mesquite thicket. He came to his feet, pawing a cluster of berries out
of his face, and plunged blindly on into the _mogote_. For a long, blind run,
the only sound was that incessant deafening crash of brush all about him. He
burst through that first thicket and crossed a game trail and clattered into
another _mogote_. Black chaparral this time, and stabbing junco and maddening
prickly pear. Then an open patch. And another _ramadero_. White brush and golden
huisache that filled the air with a vague, viscid odor of honey. Then that was
gone and the spines of the agarita tore at his face. He broke through the
agarita into a game trail that wound its secretive way through the _mogotes_,
and he stumbled down that till it petered out into more mesquite. Halfway
through, the spread of mesquite became entwined with chaparro _prieto_ and
Spanish dagger that met his every movement with a vicious stab of its dirklike
growth. He found himself fighting a frantic, useless battle to penetrate this
thicket farther; it had brought him to a complete stop and, standing there,
chest heaving, face dripping sweat, he could see that the impenetrable _mogote_
was on the rim of a draw, and that it grew on down into the bottom of the draw,
choking it full. Even if he could manage to fight his way through the thicket,
he would be exposed, crossing that draw. The realization came to him in a dim,
spasmodic way, with no true reasoning behind it, for he was still filled with
that animal panic. He whirled back and fought his way out of the mesquite. And
then, crossing the comparatively open space of the game trail, it came to him.
He stopped there. Tears squeezed from his eyes with the effort it caused him to
control his breath so he could hear more clearly. It came again, small, distant,
yet distinct enough. The faint rattle of mesquite berries, brushed by a passing
body. The soft snap of decaying vegetation beneath a careless foot. Again it was
no reasoning process. Just a wave of instinctive, animal realization of how he
was trapped. Face twisting with frustrated rage, Crawford backed slowly, almost
involuntarily, across the game trail into the mesquite thicket again. He moved
as far back as he could, upright, and then he got down on his belly and crawled
in until the roots and trunks and foliage became too thick even for that, and
then he stopped. His shirt was drenched with sweat and the perspiration dripped
into his eyes, blinding and stinging. Gnats began to float in, attracted by the
sweat and the blood of his scratches. At first he fought them. He rubbed his
palms viciously against his face, mashing the maddening insects. He slapped
wildly, gasping virulent curses. It only seemed to draw more. With a myriad of
the gnats mashed wetly against the cut, bleeding, stinging, itching flesh of his
face, and with a veritable cloud of them buzzing about his upper body, he put
his head at last into his arms, and a bitter, hoarse sobbing arose mutedly from
him. At last he stopped even that. He lay there in utter, hopeless defeat. His
crashing passage through the brush had frightened all the small animals into
silence, but now the sounds of them began again. A hooty owl started to call,
somewhere far out in the brush. Then, a coyote mourning in some distant draw.
The singing of a mockingbird that had stayed awake to welcome the rising moon.
The rustle of lizards through the decay. And that other sound. That desultory,
intermittent sound of someone moving out there. A thin scream rang out with
terrifying abruptness, jerking Crawford's head up. He lay that way a moment, up
on his hands, rigid, trembling with strain. Then he lowered himself again. Only
an ocelot, somewhere, out there, a big cat down from the mountains across the
Rio maybe. And now, lying there, with the first awful sense of defeat losing its
edge, the other began to come. They thought they had him? Damn them. Whoever it
was, damn them. The anger grew in him till it struggled with the defeat. It
thickened the blood in his throat till he almost choked. Had him trapped? The
hell. Kill him like that? Without a gun, without anything. Think he'd just wait?
_Try it. Come on, try it. I'm here. Try it._

It was going through his head while he squirmed about beneath the low
overhanging branches of chaparral, scratching his face and hands anew on barbed
nopal and the harsh mesquite. Finally he found a maguey plant, close to the
trail. He had no knife, and he had to tear at it with his fingers. They were
ripped and bleeding by the time he had torn the first strip of the leathery
plant. The Mexicans cured the strips in brine and in the sun to supple it for
their ropes. Crawford could do nothing but braid the stiff lengths together. And
all the time, out there, approaching with the deliberateness of a man knowing
the confidence of complete advantage, those sounds, rising with deadly
intermittence over the other sounds. The soft crunch of a boot heel driving
through the layer of rotting vegetation that covered the ground. The sibilant
harshness of mesquite scraping leather. Crawford worked with swift desperation
till he had a line long enough; then he knotted a hondo into one end and formed
a loop. It took him half a dozen throws across the game trail to snag one of the
low chaparral branches in a _mogote_ over there. Then he hooked the line beneath
a root on the opposite side of the trail so that it crossed the trail itself on
the ground. He moved back into his own thicket as far as the line would permit.
Then it was the waiting. Working with the rope that way, there had been no time
to think. But now it had begun to come. _En la cárcel y en la cama se conocen
los amigos._

Crawford felt his whole body grow rigid with a palpable jerk. He almost turned
his head to see who had spoken. A muffled sound escaped him as he realized it
had only been in his mind. The _brasada_ could do that to a man, this way. In
bed and in jail we know our friends? Sure. Maybe it was Aforismo. What did it
matter. The hooty owl stopped for a while, and there were only small rustlings
in the underbrush. Then the sound again, returning. A sibilant, crushed,
snapping sound. _I am a very dangerous man, Crawford._

This time he did not stiffen. It jumped through his brain so vividly he could
have sworn it was spoken. Yet he did not stiffen. All right. So maybe it was
Whitehead. All right. Moonlight spilled through his thicket suddenly, and he
realized how long he had lain there. The rising moon made skeletal monsters of
the chaparral bushes across the yellow river of the game trail, only adding to
the haunted tension filling Crawford. Thoughts moved uncontrollably through his
head now. _Please, no violence. I was born for laughter and wassail and song--_

No. Not Jacinto. Anybody else. Even Wallace Tarant. But not big, fat, grumbling
Hyacinth of the River. The gnats had found Crawford again. He dared not move as
they buzzed fitfully about his face, stinging, maddening. He closed his eyes,
gritting his teeth. Then he opened them again. That would not do. He thought he
would go crazy. His hands twitched with the impulse to slap at them. His body
cried out for movement to escape their insane buzzing. Each sting made him jerk
spasmodically. _Bueno--_

Sure, Bailey. Sure. Crawford could imagine Bailey doing that sort of thing. All
right, Bailey. Come on, Bailey. Let's get it over with, Bailey. He tried to stop
thinking like that. There were so many possibilities. He tried to stop
considering them. A man could go loco that way. He could go loco and jump right
up out of the thicket and run screaming down the game trail right into the arms
of that bushwhacker, whoever it was. A man could go loco anyway. The ocelot
screamed out there again, filling the night with a thin feral madness. It was
all madness. The gnats and the screaming cat and the howling coyote and the
crackling mesquite and the thoughts Crawford couldn't stop whirling faster and
faster through his head till he wanted to beat it against the ground. _You'll
excuse me. An old complaint._

Huerta? Sure, why not? It could be him. It could be any of them. _I knew a
Ranger once that pinned it to his undershirt._

Yeah. Even Quartel. The ocelot or Quartel or the hooty owl or any of them. He
lay there, wanting to cry, his fists clenched around the rope till they hurt,
his eyes squeezed tight with the terrible effort he made to control himself.
Finally he opened them again, staring down the trail. It would be getting him,
too, out there. If it was getting Crawford it would get the other man just as
much. The _brasada_. That's what it was. The _brasada_. Enough to drive any man
loco like this. And it would be getting him, too, out there. The ocelot
screamed. Crawford's lips pulled off his teeth in a wolfish grin. That get you,
Bailey? That get you, Whitehead? Like it got me? The hooty owl began to talk.
Crawford's grin spread. That get you? Huerta? Sort of scary, isn't it? Jacinto?
Stop maybe, and look around. Sweat maybe. Like me. Aforismo? Sure. Sure it got
them. They were as nervous as hell. Whoever it was, he was as nervous as hell.
Crawford wanted to laugh suddenly. He was bathed suddenly in a cold sweat. Then
heat flooded up from his loins. It was like a fever. Or was it the waiting? Or
the _brasada_. Sure, the _brasada_. He'd felt this way before out in it. At
night. Not so much, maybe. But then he hadn't been waiting for a man with a gun
to come and kill him either. The decay was damp from his sweat beneath his belly
and legs. His eyes ached from peering into the brush all about him. The gnats
kept clouding his vision. But now the man was closer. Each minute sibilance
crashed through Crawford's head like thunder. He could tell when the man's
clothing brushed a clump of mesquite berries and knocked some to the ground.
There was a peculiar rattling quality to that. He could tell when the man
stepped on a prickly pear. It had a squashing sound. And when he shoved aside
some chaparral. That held a hollow thump. And pulled aside some huisache.
Sighing, like the wind. _I'm a very dangerous man, Crawford._ Sure. Sure you
are, Whitehead. Come on. I'll show you who's dangerous. I knew a man once who
pinned it to his undershirt. All right. One more time, Quartel. One more time
around and I'll show you who's dangerous. Made for laughter and wassail and
song? Come on. I'm waiting. An old complaint? You'll have a complaint, Huerta.
In bed and in jail--

Then it was the shadowy figure moving out of the darkness down the trail, and
Crawford yanked on the maguey and it slipped off the branch and the branch
snapped up with a soft crackle and caused the figure to whirl that way, his gun
crashing, his back toward the thicket in which Crawford lay. "Maybe you're a
dangerous man," screamed Crawford in a terrible release, leaping to his feet and
throwing himself bodily at the man, who was still firing wildly into the
opposite thicket, "but this is one bronc you'll wish to hell you never climbed
on." _Chapter Five_

HUERTA MAKES A PROPOSITION

At dawn, it was the birds, mostly, during the spring months, like this. They
filled the dim undulations of brush with a constant, shrill twittering.
Bobwhites shrieked from a draw full of white brush, and blue quail cooed beneath
the _cejas_ of green brazil, and turkeys gobbled down in a dry creek bed where
they were fattening on elm mast. Through all this treble cacophony, Glenn
Crawford walked heavily up the road leading the shaggy black cow pony. It was
Jacinto who saw him first. Though the sun had not yet risen, smoke curled from
the kitchen, and the gross Mexican was just outside the door filling the
coffeepot from the water butt. It cost him some effort to straighten up when he
caught sight of Crawford. He stared blankly. Then he dropped the big coffeepot
with a clang and began running his way, grunting as each foot struck the ground,
his short, bandy legs looking as if they would collapse every time the
prodigious weight of his torso descended on them in a step. "_Dios_, Crawford,"
he shouted. "_Válgame Dios._ What happened? _Que hace?_ Who is it? Are you all
right? What happened?" He was halfway to Crawford by the time Aforismo stumbled
into view at the bunkhouse door, pulling bare brown legs into his stiff, greasy
_chivarras_ and blinking sleepily. Someone must have asked him what it was, for
he grunted something over his shoulder and came on out. Jacinto had reached
Crawford by the time he got to the front of the house, and it was there Crawford
halted the horse. The tremendous Mexican stood with his great belly heaving from
the run, staring blankly at Whitehead. He started to reach out and touch the
man, then dropped his hand. "Is--is he--"

"Yes," said Crawford, watching Aforismo come from the bunkhouse and Quartel step
out the door now, yawning and cursing. The shutter on an upstairs window
clattered against the dilapidated weatherboarding, and Huerta leaned out to look
down a moment. Then he withdrew his head, and Crawford could hear movement from
within his room. Quartel came across the compound after Aforismo, slipping a
dirty cotton shirt over his head. "What happened?" he said. He looked at the
body slung across the horse without much expression in his face. What lay in his
eyes was not apparent till he got closer. They were narrowed, and the pupils
held a strange oblong felinity. "_Es muerto_," said Jacinto stupidly. "I know
he's dead," said Quartel. "What happened?" "Out in the brush," said Crawford,
watching Quartel. The Mexican looked at him, then glanced at the horse. He
reached out to pull the Winchester from beneath the stirrup leather, opening the
front end of the magazine and tilting the gun down. Two copper rim-fires clinked
into his calloused palm. "Looks like he did a lot of shooting," said Quartel.
"He always carried that gun in one hand when he rode," said Jacinto. "I told him
he'd fall and break his neck sometime." "Did you?" said Quartel. He was studying
Crawford, shaking the two .44 shells up and down in his closed hand. "You still
haven't told us what happened." "His neck's broken," said Jacinto hopefully.
Quartel allowed his narrowed eyes to observe the odd way Cabezablanca's head
hung, twisted around from the line of his shoulders. "That's what it looks like.
Where did you find him?" "Yes," said Doctor Huerta, from the door. "Where did
you find him, Crawford?" He had on a gaudy black-and-gold dressing-gown with
satin lapels and slippers of red leather. His face had never looked more
dissolute. The dim light seemed to draw out the singular, jaundiced corruption
of his sallow flesh. His heavy lids were almost closed over his eyes, veined and
pouched, and one of them twitched visibly. He had both hands in the pockets of
his bathrobe, and they were visibly closed into fists. Merida stood behind him.
She had on a house gown of blue cashmere, evidently donned hurriedly. There was
something Indian about her dark, aquiline face; her black hair hanging long and
straight about her shoulders. "I told you," said Crawford. "Out in the brush."
"You didn't tell me," said Huerta. "I told Quartel," said Crawford. "He didn't
tell me what happened," said Quartel. "To Crawford," said Merida, "or
Whitehead?" "Yes," said Doctor Huerta, moving tiredly across the porch. "What
did happen to you, Crawford?" "We ain't interested in that now," said Quartel.
"I'd like to know what happened to Whitehead first." "You seemed interested
yesterday," said Merida. "You were quite upset that you had lost Crawford in the
brush." "What have you got in your hand?" said Huerta. "A gun," Quartel told
him. "Don't be obtuse," said Huerta. "I mean the other hand." Quartel opened his
fingers. The two shells glinted dully in the growing light. Somewhere out back
of the bunkhouse a rooster crowed. Both Huerta and Merida looked for a long
moment at the two cartridges. Slowly, Huerta's jaded eyes moved to Crawford, and
the heavy, blue lids were lifted farther open. "You say his neck is broken?"
Huerta asked nobody in particular. "Jacinto said his neck was broken," said
Quartel. "Well," said the woman impatiently, "is it?" Huerta drew a weary breath
and came slowly down the sagging steps and around the horse. "Yes," he nodded,
without taking his hands from his pockets. "Broken." "Like in a fall?" That
pathetic hope was in Jacinto's voice again. Huerta took one of his hands out.
His long, pale fingers moved slightly across Cabezablanca's head and face,
sifting the dense white hair and testing the skull with a professional
casualness. "No contusions about the head or face." Huerta was running his
forefinger delicately across the back of Cabezablanca's shirt now, flattening it
over the resilient planes of the man's back. Then he moved around to the other
side of the shaggy horse, tugging at the man's pants legs. "No other wounds
either," he said at last. His head turned slowly till he was looking at
Crawford. Something had begun to dissipate the jaded glaze from those eyes,
something that grew in them as he watched Crawford. He spoke, however, to
Quartel. "How many shots does that Winchester hold?" "It's an 1866 with King's
improvements," said Quartel. "Thirteen." "Oh." It was a soft, hissing
intonation. Then Huerta motioned toward the bunkhouse with the hand he had out.
"Better take him down and bury him out back of the bunkhouse." Quartel jerked
the Winchester at Crawford. "Let's go." "No," said Huerta, putting that hand
back in his pocket and walking up the steps to the porch. "I think Crawford had
better stay here at the house for breakfast. You did such a poor job of keeping
tabs on him yesterday." Quartel's face darkened and he took a quick breath
before he spoke the word. "Huerta--"

"Yes?" said Huerta, turning around at the top of the steps to face Quartel. He
leaned forward slightly, his satanic brows arched upward, those heavy lids
slipping down across his eyes. There was a faint, inquiring smile on his thin,
bloodless lips. For a moment Quartel stood there staring at him, mouth still
open a little. The rooster crowed again. A chachalaca started scolding his mate
out in the thicket. With an abrupt jerk, Quartel turned to catch up the trailing
reins of the pony and started off toward the bunkhouse in that stiff-legged walk
of his, wooden boot heels thumping in a swift, hard tattoo against the ground.
Aforismo watched him go a moment, scratching his bare stomach absently. "You
can't tell a man's been picking tunas just because he has nopal thorns all over
his coat," he said. *       *       *       *       *

Crawford's boots made a soft muffled sound across the Aubusson rug of the
living-room. He lowered himself heavily into the Turkish toweling which
upholstered the movable cushions of the willow chairs by the front windows. For
the first time he felt fully the toll the preceding night had exacted from him.
His black beard failed to hide the gaunt, driven hollows beneath his cheeks, and
there was something feverish in the glow of his eyes. He stared absently about
the spacious, cool room. Rockland had refurnished this chamber not two years
ago, and as many times as Crawford had been in it, he could never get used to
such luxury in this harsh, barren land. Huerta had followed him into the house,
halting in the entrance hall for a word with Merida, and now the doctor stepped
into the living-room, closing the door behind him. He stood there a moment,
studying Crawford. "Merida will dress and be down for breakfast," he said,
absently. He moved to the pier table of rich, figured British oak at one side of
the room, opening one of the doors to lift out a cut-glass decanter. "Perhaps
you would like a drink--after what happened, no?" His face managed to convey the
effort the slightest physical exertion seemed to cause him, as he poured the
liquor. Then his red Chinese slippers slid over the Aubusson's thick nap to
Crawford. As he bent forward to hand Crawford the drink, their glances met.
Perhaps it was a trick of the illumination from the window. The pupils of
Huerta's eyes seemed to dilate and contract and dilate again, small pin points
of glittering light flaring and dying and flaring once more beneath the jet-
black surface. It filled Crawford with a vague dizziness. "Why did you bring
Whitehead back, Crawford?" murmured the doctor. "It seems to me you were rather
in a position to escape, out there." He waited a moment, but Crawford did not
answer. "When you first came, I considered it necessary to guard you," said
Huerta, finally. "Perhaps I was taking undue precautions. It seems you would
have stayed anyway. Why, Crawford? Do you still maintain you didn't murder
Rockland?" "That's right." It came from Crawford in a flat defiance. "Then the
only way you could prove your innocence would be to find who really did murder
Rockland," said Huerta. "Do you think the murderer is here?" "I have no doubt of
it," said Crawford. "Just what did happen out there?" Huerta said softly,
bending toward Crawford with the liquor. Crawford took the drink, downed it neat
before answering. "What do you think?" "I think you surprised a lot of people,"
said Huerta. "And gave them a different estimation of you than they had
possessed before." He leaned backward slightly. "Why should Whitehead want to
kill you?" "Who said he did?" "I never knew such a secretive man," said Huerta.
"You refuse to give one inch, don't you? Very well. Let us assume that Whitehead
wanted to kill you. Why should he?" "Whitehead was Quartel's man?" said
Crawford. "Quartel is the foreman here," Huerta's agile mind had connected that
even while he spoke, and his head tilted forward in a faint acquiescence. "All
right. Why should Quartel want you killed?" "He seemed to think I was a lawman,"
Crawford muttered. "Is that sufficient reason?" "You haven't been in the
_brasada_ long, have you?" said Crawford. "It's a good form of suicide for a
lawman to show up in here." Huerta nodded that way again, studying Crawford. "It
is interesting," he murmured, "to watch it." That took Crawford off guard.
"What?" "The way it works in you," said Huerta. "You're conscious of it all the
time, Crawford, whether in the proximity of horses or not." "I don't know what
you're talking about," said Crawford, getting up from the chair with such
violence that he pulled one of the rich blue pillows off with him. He paced
across the room in swift, inhibited strides. Huerta watched him a moment,
putting the jade holder languidly to his lips. He did not smile, but the heavy
blue lids, narrowing across his eyes with a feline torpidity, managed to convey
a certain condescending amusement. His pale, pinched nostrils fluttered,
emitting twin streamers of smoke. "Did it ever occur to you," he said, "that the
legs might not really be completely healed?" Crawford turned to look at him a
moment. "Sure," he said, finally. "Sure it occurred to me. I went to more than
one doctor. They all said I was okay." "It's not like an ordinary fracture, you
realize," said Huerta. "Not like you'd take a stick and snap it, or a leg.
Mashed. Not a clean severance. Crushed, Crawford, like you'd take a handful of
meal and grind it beneath--"

"All right. Mashed. Crushed. All right." Huerta allowed him to finish, then
inclined his head apologetically. "It does things to the nerves. Physically, I
mean. They get crushed too. Displaced. Pinched. All manner of derangement. Your
bones may knit--the flesh, the skin. But the nerves. That's different. It would,
ah, take a man skilled in that type of work, now, a man with experience in such
things--"

"You've had a vast experience, I suppose." Huerta shrugged. "Why don't you let
me look at them. Maybe we do you an injustice. Perhaps you have sound reason for
feeling the pain." Crawford studied the man's dissolute face, trying to read
what lay in the ironic twist of the lips, the narrow occultation of the eyes,
wondering if this was just another variation in the game. Yet, the possibility
of sincerity--

"Shall we go into the kitchen?" said Huerta. "The parlor is not exactly the
place for such an examination." Crawford knew a hesitation. Then, with a
decisive abruptness he turned out into the entrance way and down the hall past
the stairs. The fireplace was of stone rather than the adobe found in the
Mexican dwellings; it ran almost the length of one wall. Jacinto had left a pot
of soup simmering over one of the smaller pot fires to one side of the main
spit. There was a plain Gothic dining-set, and Huerta pulled one of the
butternut chairs from beneath the bare table, indicating that Crawford should
remove his pants. That wary inhibition was in Crawford's movements. "You might
sit on the table," said Huerta. When Crawford was seated, the doctor moved
closer and bent slightly, reaching out one pale hand. It was like a woman's
hand, satiny, boneless. "Can't you relax, Crawford? What's the matter? Feel any
pain?" Crawford stared in a strange fascination at the slender, spatulated
fingers spidering his hairy calves. "No. No pain." "Then why so stiff?" Huerta
pressed a spot just below his knee. The strength of his grip was surprising.
Then, still holding the kneecap between thumb and forefinger, he looked up. It
was the same thing, again, those eyes. The pupils took on an oblique felinity,
and the odd little lights flaring beneath the surface. And he began to talk, in
that soft, bored, insinuating tone. "Nerve ends, you understand. Pressures. As I
said, deranged. Nucleus. So on. Hm? Pain?" "No--no--"

Perhaps it was the gusty vehemence in Crawford's voice which caused Huerta to
look up. For a moment their glances met. Huerta's pupils seemed to dilate
slightly. _Sure_, thought Crawford, _go ahead, make it good_, and he tried to
feel the sarcasm, but somehow he couldn't, because the effect of those eyes was
real, distinct, eerie. "No pain? "No. No pain. No!" Those eyes again.
Contracting. Little lights flaring and dying. Just for an instant. The probing
fingers. That sibilant, insistent voice. "Here, perhaps? The flesh looks rather
badly healed. Feel that? Pain?" "No!" "Take it easy, Crawford. I'm trying to
help. Here?" "No. I told you. I don't feel pain, damn it, I told you--"

"Here then. Pain?" "No--"

"Here?" "No, damn you, no, I--"

"Pain?" Huerta's head raised abruptly. "What's the matter, Crawford?" Crawford
stood where he had stepped off the table, pulling on his faded old levis with
swift, tense jerks. "Nothing. Forget it." Huerta leaned back against the table,
studying Crawford through the twin streamers of smoke he emitted. "Why does it
disturb you so much, Crawford, if you feel no pain?" he asked softly. Crawford
stood there facing him, breathing heavily. "What are you trying to do, Huerta?"
"Give you, shall we say, an illustration," said Huerta. "Don't you think I know
what is the matter with you, Crawford? Ever since I first saw you watching
Africano out in the corral. Perhaps the others are still groping. They sense
something not quite right in you, Crawford. But they don't know for sure, yet. I
know, Crawford." He said the last softly, positively, watching Crawford. He took
a drag on the cigarette. "It must be a terrible thing to live with constantly.
It makes two personalities out of you, really, Crawford. In these flashes of
bitter defiance, I see what you must have been before. The strength. The
courage. But the other is always there, isn't it, working beneath, stirring in
you, weakening you, tearing at you. The pain that comes whenever you get near a
horse. And the fear, Crawford. And more and more, not just when you're near a
horse. All the time. That lack of confidence, that constant indecision. It won't
lessen. It will grow, Crawford, until you are that way completely, until these
flashes of your former self cease to come. I told you about that miner in
Monterrey--"

"You told me!" Crawford choked off the shout, staring sullenly at Huerta. He
spoke finally, again, controlling it with hoarse effort. "Think I don't know."
"You _do_ know," said Huerta. "However, it is not hopeless. For most diseases,
there is a cure, even for those of the mind. Doctors are only human beings. They
can only cure what they have the knowledge to cure. If the men you went to were
not experienced in this type of thing, it does not mean there is no hope." "Are
you suggesting--that you--"

"Why not?" shrugged Huerta. "I've had experience in such cases. Is it
inconceivable to you?" "Why?" said Crawford. Huerta studied his cigarette. "I
don't quite understand." "I mean why should you do it," said Crawford. "I am no
altruist," said Huerta. "A doctor usually gets paid." "You know I haven't got
any money," Crawford said. Huerta did not answer, leaning against the table and
studying Crawford through narrowed eyes. "You're offering me some kind of
proposition?" Crawford asked him. "You might call it that," said Huerta. "As I
said before, we think your quarrel with Rockland was over more than the way he
acquired Delcazar's land." "Was it?" "You know what I mean," said Huerta. "Maybe
I haven't got what you want." "I think you have," said Huerta. "Have you got a
license?" said Crawford. It was the first time he had ever seen Huerta taken off
guard. There was no change of expression in the doctor's face. Just that
moment's hesitation. It was enough to give Crawford a certain satisfaction.
"License?" "M.D.," said Crawford. "Every doctor I've seen had it pinned on his
wall. Two or three, some of them. How about yours?" Huerta drew a heavy breath.
"I won't dignify that with an answer." "I didn't think so," said Crawford.
"That's one reason I won't take your proposition. I don't think you could cure
me of the stomach-ache. I don't think you're a doctor. I don't think you ever
were." "My dear fellow, I spent fourteen years in the Mexican army--"

"So did a lot of butchers. If you operated on anybody, I'll bet a pink cow to a
blind hoot owl it was with a machete right up in the ranks." "Crawford, my
medical reputation has never been ques--" It had come out of Huerta
involuntarily, and he stopped himself with a distinct effort. He stood there a
moment, the anger flushing his sallow face dully as he must have realized how
far he had let himself go. Deliberately, he allowed himself to settle back
against the table. He closed his eyes when he took a drag on the cigarette, did
not open them as he exhaled, and spoke. "Let us consider the negative side of my
proposition, then. Your condition can be used against you, Crawford. You could
be driven quite mad. Not obvious crudities. Not the type of thing Quartel would
use. Not making you ride a horse or letting you watch Africano. Not anything as
simple to get away from. Merely suggestion, Crawford. Your mind will do the
rest. Little things. Insidious things. "Like the story of a miner who got
crushed in a cave-in down at Monterrey. Did that stay with you a long time,
Crawford? At night, perhaps, you'd wake up. Remembering. Wondering. Innuendoes,
Crawford. Insinuations. Things for the mind to retain and savor. Because it _is_
your mind. I showed you that with the examination. It isn't your legs. That
doesn't give you the fear. It's what a man could work with, Crawford, a doctor,
who knew every stimulus, every reaction." He took the butt of his cigarette from
the jade holder, tossing it absently into the fireplace. Then, still watching
the holder, he spoke again, sibilantly. "Do you doubt my ability to do it,
Crawford, if necessary?" Crawford had been watching the doctor with a taut,
bleak expression on his gaunt face, and he answered in a hollow, resigned way.
"No." "Then perhaps you will reconsider my proposition." "No," said Crawford, in
that same hollow tone. Huerta reached beneath his coat for his silver cigarette
case, taking a smoke from this to fit it in the holder. He did not raise his
eyes to Crawford again as he moved across the room toward the door. He pulled
open the portal, and only then, turning toward Crawford, did his glance rise.
Again Crawford was swept with that strange, hypnotic dizziness, as he stared
into the man's eyes. It struck him as childishly melodramatic, and he wanted to
laugh, and could not. "I think you will regret coming back this morning," said
Huerta, in a barely audible voice, before he turned to go out. "I think you will
regret it exceedingly." _Chapter Six_

"TELL US WHAT HAPPENED." An adobe banco ran down one side of the cookshack on
the inside, forming a bench, and it was upon this that Jacinto had deposited his
generous bulk. He was bent in childish concentration over a block of wax from
which he carefully peeled thin strips, depositing these with much care into a
clay bowl. Small, intimate mutters rumbled up from him with each process. "Ah,
so," he mumbled, slicing off a piece, "ah _sí_," and sliced off another, and
then jumped erect in startled surprise, dropping the block of wax. "Ah,
Crawford!" Crawford stepped on in through the door, sniffing. "Smells like
bayberry." "How--how did you get out?" quavered Jacinto, grunting painfully with
the effort it cost him to stoop over and retrieve the wax. "Nobody stopped me,"
said Crawford. "They gave me that upstairs bedroom, but I couldn't sleep." "You
better not come in here, Crawford," said the gross cook. "Maybe they're not
watching you like they did, but you better get out of here. Why do you think
Huerta kept you up at the house this morning? Didn't you see how Quartel looked
at you? You're just lucky he didn't get you down here." There was a dish of
cracklings on the table, and Crawford took one, pulling a three-legged stool out
to sit on it. "Quartel and the others are out chousing cattle. Making candles?"
"_Sí_," mumbled Jacinto, lowering himself back on the bench. "Nobody can make
them like me. That was bayberry you smelled all right. I didn't have enough
sheep tallow. First I make it into blocks and then cut it into small scraps so
it melts quick without burning. I put the wax in hot water and scoop the grease
off as it comes to the top. Then I strain it through a horsehair cloth to remove
whatever dirt I missed in skimming. I am now heating the wax to pour in the
molds. Did you ever see such fine molds? My father owned that brass one in El
Paso. It holds two dozen candles at one pouring. If you came here to find out
what's going on, I can't tell you." The abrupt transition brought Crawford's
head up in surprise. Jacinto set the mold end up in a dishpan, chuckling. "I am
not as stupid as I am corpulent, Crawford. You didn't come here just to eat my
cracklings." His great bloodshot eyes slid upward in their pouches till they met
Crawford's. "But I can't tell you anything, Crawford. I know something is going
on. Huerta and that woman. Something not quite right. Tarant too, somehow. Maybe
you can tell me." "Hyacinth, what did you think of that story about Santa Anna's
chests?" "I--Santa Maria, that wax is hot." Jacinto sat shaking his finger a
moment. Then he put it into his mouth. "If Santa Anna lost some chests up here,
I guess he lost them, that's all. Mm, you ought to taste that bayberry. I think
I'll season my _chiles rollenos_ with it some time." "You heard the one about
the map?" said Crawford. "The _derrotero_? _Sí_, I guess there was supposed to
be a map. Isn't there always, with something like that?" "Ever stop to think of
Santa Anna's full name?" "_Ciertamente._ Everybody knows it. Antonio Lopez de
San--" Jacinto stopped, staring at Crawford. Wax dripped from the tin ladle onto
the floor. Crawford popped a last crackling into his mouth. "Would that give her
a connection?" he said. "Lopez is a common name," said Jacinto, almost
defensively. "A woman like that don't trail through this kind of country just
for the scenery," said Crawford. He closed his eyes, rolling the name
meditatively off his tongue. "Merida Lopez." It must have been about then the
first sound floated in from outside, the creak of saddle leather, a man's hoarse
cough. Jacinto jumped across the room, jerking Crawford up out of the chair.
"They're back, Crawford, you got to go, you got to get out of here, if Quartel
ever gets you alone after Whitehead, he'll--"

He stopped shoving Crawford toward the doorway, and his voice faded into a
series of small, choked sounds. Aforismo stood there, sweat streaking the dust
in his smooth brown face, holding a belduque in his hands. "_El amante fiel_,"
he said, running his finger down the keen edge, "the Loyal Lover. Did you ever
see my knife, Crawford? Truly a remarkable weapon. Handed down in my family for
generations. The hilt was once studded with precious stones, but they have long
since been picked out by various members of my illustrious house who were in
temporary financial destitution." He took a shuffling step toward them. "Look at
the _bravos_ on the blade. See this one. _Nothing compares with my kiss._ Isn't
that a delectable motto?" Jacinto shrank back, staring in fascinated horror at
the words cut into that side of the gleaming blade. Through the dog-run,
Crawford could hear the thump of a chair in the bunkhouse, the clatter of spoons
on the table. "Please, Aforismo, please," quavered Jacinto. "Let him go. _Madre
de Dios!_ let him go out the door before they find him in here. You know what
will happen. Quartel would--"

"And this one," Aforismo said, turning the blade over and pointing to another
motto cut into that side. "This is my favorite _bravo_ I think. _Tripe is sweet
but bowels are better._ Don't you like that one, Jacinto?" He took another
shuffling step toward them with the point almost touching Crawford's belly.
"Don't you like that _bravo_, Crawford? Tell me you like it. It is my favorite,
I think." "Please, please." Jacinto was cringing behind Crawford, wringing his
hands, sweat dribbling down his coarse face. "_En el nombre de Dios_, Aforismo,
let him go, he never did anything to you, he never harmed one little hair of
your head, I hate violence so, oh, I do hate violence so, my father he always
tell me there are two sins in the world, work and fighting, and--oh, _por Dios_,
Aforismo, _Santa Maria, nombre de mi madre_, let him go, let him go--"

"They say down in Durango a coyote always howls loudest in the trap," said
Aforismo, nudging Crawford gently back with that needle point. "I think maybe we
better all go in the bunkhouse, eh? The hands are getting hungry. Tripe is sweet
but bowels are better, eh?" Crawford did not step back quickly enough, and that
needle point went through his shirt with a soft ripping sound. The stinging bite
of steel in the hard muscle of his belly caused his move back to be involuntary.
His breath left him in a hoarse gust and he bent forward with the impulse
driving through him. That was as far as it went. Aforismo's boots made that
bland shuffle on the hard-packed earth, moving forward. His face twisted with
frustrated anger, Crawford shifted back into the dog-run, shoving the cringing
cook behind him. "_Dios_, Aforismo, _por Dios_, no violence, please, I could not
stand the sight of blood, it would make me regurgitate, please--"

Jacinto knocked over a chair backing from the dog-run into the bunkhouse. It
made a loud clatter. Then Crawford was in the bunkhouse, still bent forward that
way, his breath coming out harsh and swift, and he could see them. Bueno Bailey
was seated at the table. "I was just showing Crawford the _bravos_ on my
belduque," said Aforismo. "In Durango they say it is an ignorant man who cannot
tell his sons at least one _bravo_." "_Bueno._" Bailey trailed the word out in a
pleased, nasal twang, shoving the bench back from the table. "Siddown, Crawford.
We was just about to eat." "I guess you never met Ford Innes, did you,
Crawford," said Quartel. "This is Crawford, Ford. He is the one who brought your
_amigo_ back this morning." The redheaded man in the doorway emitted a flat,
harsh grunt. He must have just stepped in, for he held his saddle under one arm.
The short, square lines of his body held all the lethal threat of a snub-nosed
derringer. He had a flat-topped hat set squarely on his head. The bottom of his
red beard was dirty from rubbing against the grease daubs on the chest of a
buckskin ducking jacket with square tails that hung outside his _chivarras_ and
which were caught up on one side by the wooden handle of his Remington. "Ford
just got back from taking Wallace Tarant into San Antonio," said Quartel. "As
many times as that shyster's been back and forth between here and town, he still
can't find his way through the brush himself." The leather rigging clattered
against the hard earthen floor when Innes dropped his pack. His bushy bleached
brows formed a reddish dominance above shrewd little eyes that had not left
Crawford's face since he entered. He moved over and sat down across from Bailey.
"So you brought Whitehead back." His voice held the same lack of intonation as
his grunt. "Ford had been Whitehead's saddle mate for a long time," said
Quartel. "I guess he'd like to know how it happened to Whitehead." "Get us some
grub, Jacinto," said Aforismo. With his belduque he indicated a place beside
Bailey. "An empty seat there, Crawford. Sit down." Crawford looked at the knife.
He sat down. The table groaned as Aforismo lowered himself onto it and put his
feet on the bench, running a finger up and down his belduque. Ford Innes began
playing with his spoon on the table. Jacinto came from the dog-run with a dish
of beans. He fumbled the plate at the last moment and almost tipped it onto the
table. His fat jowls were trembling with his chin. "Please, please, let's not
have any--"

"So Whitehead broke his neck out in the thicket," said Innes. "Have some beans,
Glenn," said Bailey, ladling them onto a plate he had shoved before Crawford.
"They call them _nacionales_ down in Durango, because so many Mexicans eat
them," said Aforismo. "It is said of one who is weak that he lacks
_nacionales_." "How did it happen to Whitehead?" said Innes. "We don't know,"
said Bailey, helping the man to beans. "Crawford just brought him back over his
horse with his neck broke and said he found him out in the brush that way." "How
did it happen?" Innes asked Crawford. "There was eleven shots gone from
Whitehead's carbine," said Quartel. Innes began eating in a slow, mechanical
way, his jaws working steadily beneath his red beard, looking at Crawford.
"Where's your iron?" "Whitehead took away Crawford's rifle when he first came,"
said Aforismo. Innes's bleached eyebrows raised, and he ceased chewing for a
moment. Quartel was standing behind Crawford to one side, and Crawford caught
the sly grin spreading the man's pawky lips. "There was no other marks on
Whitehead's body," Quartel said. "Well," said Innes, still looking at Crawford
that way. Finally he went back to spooning up the beans, his eyes never leaving
Crawford's face. "What happened?" he said again, around a mouthful. "Yeah."
Bailey nudged Crawford on the shoulder with his spoon. "What happened?" Crawford
could hear his own breathing now. It held a harsh, driven sound. He looked from
Innes to Bailey, from Bailey to Quartel, from Quartel to Aforismo. There was a
patent brutal intent in all their faces. He was hunched over so far now the heat
of the beans in his plate penetrated his shirt and warmed his chest. "Where's
the sorrel?" said Bailey. "What sorrel?" said Innes. "The horse he took out,"
said Quartel. "He never brought him back." "Coffee?" It was Jacinto again,
waddling in with a big pot. He set it down, looking around at the men. He wrung
his great fat hands together, speaking in a small, strained voice. "Please,
_señores_, please. Violence. I cannot stand it. You won't do this. Tell me you
won't do this. My father, he say--"

Aforismo turned toward him, lifting the belduque. "Would you like my Loyal Lover
to see inside the sack?" "No." Jacinto backed out, lugubrious tears forming at
the corners of his eyes. "No, _lástima de Dios_, tears of God, no--"

"You ain't told us what happened yet," said Innes, still eating. "Yeah." Quartel
shoved Crawford from behind. "How did you lose the sorrel? You could ride any
horse I could, remember?" Crawford's hands were clasped desperately between his
knees. There was a taut, set expression to his features. Sweat had begun
trickling down his cheeks into his beard. His whole body was trembling. "So you
brought Whitehead in with a broken neck," said Innes. "Yeah." Bueno poked
Crawford with the spoon again. "How did it get broke?" "Yeah." Aforismo pricked
him from the other side with the knife. "What happened?" "How did it get broke?"
"How did you lose the sorrel?" "What happened?" Crawford jerked away as Aforismo
bent forward with that belduque again. It carried him against Bueno, sitting on
his other side. Bueno pushed him back roughly. Quartel shoved him from behind so
hard his chest struck the table. A small, strangled sound escaped him. "Tell us
what happened." "_Sí_, tell us, Crawford." "What happened, Crawford?" "Talk,
damn you." Bueno's shove was harder. "Tell us, Crawford." The knife prick was
deeper. He jerked away from it. Bailey caught him and shoved him back brutally.
He made a spasmodic effort to rise. Quartel put both hands on his shoulders and
forced him back down. He tried to twist around. Aforismo's belduque was in his
face. He jerked back the other way into Bailey. His hands knotted and writhed
between his knees underneath the table. His whole body was shuddering now.
"Where's the sorrel?" "How'd he break his neck?" "Talk, damn you!" "Tell us,
Crawford." "What happened?" "Gentlemen!" It came from the doorway, and it
stopped them abruptly. Huerta stood there, bent forward slightly, and those
bluish lids were almost closed over his eyes. "I think we all know what happened
to Whitehead," he said, "don't you?" He stood there a moment, but no one
answered. He dropped his eyes to the jade cigarette holder he held in one hand,
tapping it to knock the ash from the cigarette, and still looking down that way,
spoke again. "I think it would be wise, now, Crawford, for you to come with me,
up to the house, don't you?" _Chapter Seven_

SUNDAY CELEBRATION

It was the odor at first. Crawford lay there, staring up at the ceiling, groping
up through the remnants of a sleep so heavy it left him filled with an
oppressive nausea. The hangings had been removed from the bed and the four
reeded mahogany posts reached up through the semi-gloom to support the bare
tester frame above him. He realized where he was, then. Huerta had stopped them?
Yes, Huerta had stopped them last night, and brought him to the big house to
sleep. Strange, the influence Huerta had over them. Without actually doing
anything. Those eyes? Maybe that was it. Crawford sat up abruptly, the heavy
chintz coverlet falling away from him. He held out his hand, staring at the
fingers. They were trembling. He sniffed the air. He pulled the coverlet
completely off, swinging his bare feet out of the bed. His levis were on the
russet wing chair and he grabbed them up and stepped into the legs. It was that
sensation again, stirring within him. It was hard for him to breathe. He sat on
the bed a moment, hands clutching the covers, staring at the wall. Why? Here.
Why? He turned his head from side to side, searching the room. It was day, but
the overdrapes had been pulled across the window, and he could make out the
furniture only dimly in the semi-gloom. And still, down inside him, rising,
growing. He bent down to pull on his boots with swift, desperate tugs, then
rose. He looked like a hounded animal, the forward thrust of his rigid body
imparting that narrowness to his shoulders, his eyes shifting furtively in a
gaunt face. Then, on one of those shallow, indrawn breaths, it came to him,
unmistakable. Slowly, his whole body so tense it was trembling now, he turned
about, sniffing. He stepped away from the bed, toward the windows, and it faded.
He moved back toward the bed, and he could smell it again. With a muttered curse
he bent down and tore the coverlet off. The dirty, fetid horse blanket had been
laid out flat beneath the chintz spread. "Huerta!" It came out of him in a
strangled, guttural rage, and he bent to clutch the horse blanket. He had it
lifted off the bed before he released it, throwing it back down and whirling to
the door. His boots made a hard thump down the stairway and into the entrance
hall. He had almost passed the living-room when, through the open door, he
caught sight of Huerta, seated in one of the willow chairs by the window. The
doctor had been reading, and he lowered the book, leaning forward in the chair.
"You must have slept well, Crawford," he said. "It's nearly noon." Crawford
started to take a step forward, opening his mouth to speak. Then he closed it
again, his fists clenched tight. There was a faint, waiting mockery on Huerta's
face. Crawford whirled and stamped on out the front door. As he went down the
front steps, he saw the crowd out by the corrals, and was drawn toward it. He
made out Bueno Bailey and Innes among the men, but the others were new faces to
him. There were half a dozen riders cavorting their horses around in the open
flats, and a big Chihuahua cart was creaking out of the brush, piled high with
onions and apricots and baskets of blue corn meal and squealing Mexican children
and a fat Mexican peon driving. Crawford was part way across the compound when
he saw the woman coming toward him. He had a momentary impulse to turn away, and
stifled that. She held her heavy green satin skirt up out of the dust with one
hand, and the wind ruffled the throat of her white Antoinette fichu. Her eyes,
big and dark and searching, were held to his face until she reached him, and it
did something to Crawford. "They said it was a bull-tailing," she told him,
coming to a stop. "I don't exactly understand." "About the only celebration the
_brasaderos_ get," he said, watching her warily. "A bunch of them gather almost
every Sunday somewhere to eat and drink and tail the bull. I think they're
celebrating Cinco de Mayo today. Commemorating some battle at Puebla--"

He trailed off, because he could see it in her face, and he didn't particularly
want to talk about the bull-tailing either. When she spoke again, her voice was
husky and strained, and it must have been what was really on her mind, from the
first. "They were trying to kill you," she said. "Jacinto told me. They got you
in there, and started in on you, and they meant to drive you till you cracked
and fought back, and then they were going to kill you. How did you stand it so
long, Crawford? Jacinto said no other man could have. Pushing you and shoving
you and beating you like that. How did you stand it?" "I'm still here, ain't I?"
he said. She drew in a breath, staring up at him. "Why did you come back with
Whitehead?" she said finally. "You could have escaped." "Maybe a man gets tired
running," he said. She caught his arm, coming in close enough for him to catch a
hint of her perfume. "Crawford, I want to help you." His whole body was rigid
now, with that wariness. "I never saw a cow yet that wanted to get back inside a
corral when it was outside." "You're so suspicious," she flamed. Then she leaned
toward him farther, looking up into his face. "I guess you have a right to be.
You've been fighting all of them, haven't you, ever since this started. I don't
blame you, Crawford. I know how you feel. I'm in the same position. I need your
help as much as you need mine." It had been a long time since a woman stood this
close to him, with her hair shining like that, and her eyes. He felt a weakness
seep through him. He stared at the soft red curve of her lip, and his voice was
hardly audible. "What are you talking about?" "Have you ever heard of Mogotes
Serpientes?" she said. "Snake Thickets? I guess so. It's supposed to be
somewhere west of Rio Diablo in that stretch of bad brush." "You've never
actually been there?" Her voice was tense. "I don't know who has," he said.
"There's a lot of the _brasada_ nobody's ever seen, white man _or_ Indian.
There's a stretch due south from here just above the Rio Grande called Resaca
Espantosa. Nobody's ever been through it. I don't know why they call it Haunted
Swamp." "But there is a good reason for the name Mogotes Serpientes?" "So they
say. It's supposed to be so full of snakes no man could stay alive in there more
than a few--" He trailed off as he realized how far he had let her allure carry
him, and pulled roughly away from her, his mouth twisting down at one corner.
"Crawford," she said, trying to get in close again. "Please. Don't. I mean it.
You've got to believe me. If you believe in anything, you've got to--"

"Huerta made me a proposition too," said Crawford. "It didn't pack such a
wallop, but it was along the same lines." She flushed, stepping back from him
violently. "You fool," she said, in a bitter, intense whisper. "You fool." They
were still standing that way, staring at each other, when Huerta came out on the
porch. The woman saw him and turned away, moving back toward the corrals. "Hola,
Quartel," someone over by the pens shouted. "When are you letting the _toros_
out? I got a twenty-dollar pot for the first man to tail a bull." "It's mine."
Quartel's bellow came from somewhere in the crowd, and then he appeared, running
in that stiff, saddle-bound stride of his toward the horses. "Aforismo, let that
blue out. He ought to give us a good run." *       *       *       *       *

Used to working the wild, savage cattle of the brushland, the Mexicans trained
their horses to spin away from the side on which a man mounted as soon as he
lifted a foot to the stirrup. Though this saved many a _vaquero_ from being
gored by a ringy bull which he had just released after throwing and branding the
beast, it took a good man to get on one of these horses. Each rider had a string
of animals, and from his bunch Quartel had saddled a brown horse they called a
_trigueño_. He knocked the reins loose of the corral post and snapped them over
the _trigueño's_ head. Then he checked the animal, pulling the nigh rein in till
it twisted the _trigueño's_ head down toward its shoulder so that the horse's
action would be inhibited long enough for him to mount. As soon as Quartel
raised his left foot, the _trigueño_ tried to whirl, but that checking action
held him long enough for Quartel to jam his foot in the stirrup and swing aboard
in one violent movement. Then he released the tight rein and allowed the animal
to spin toward the right. From outside the cedar-post corral, Aforismo and
several other _vaqueros_ had goaded and prodded a blue bull until it was
separated from the other bulls within the enclosure. As it neared the gate,
Aforismo let down the drop bar. In their natural state, running the brush, these
cows were among the wildest animals of the world, and the several days this cut
of bulls had spent penned up had put them in a frenzied rage. The blue stood
there a moment, glaring suspiciously at the opening, pawing the ground. His
great long curving horns had been scored and ripped and punched by the brush
until it looked as if someone had hacked them over with a knife, and a pattern
of scars formed a network across the gleaming lathered hide of his forequarters.
From the side, he looked deceptively heavy, his length so extended that his back
swayed, but as he lashed his tail and shifted around to display a rear view, his
narrow hips and cat hams and ridgepole back became apparent. Abruptly, with a
hoarse bellow, he lowered his head, and swinging it from side to side, galloped
out of the gate. Quartel yelled something, dug in with his Chihuahuas and
whacked his quirt against the _trigueño's_ rump at the same time. The brown
horse burst into a headlong run, followed by most of the other _vaqueros_,
shouting and yelling and snapping their quirts against leather _chivarras_ and
fancy _charro_ pants. The blue bull had spotted an opening in the brush across
the compound, and he shook the ground tearing for it. But the horsemen swiftly
closed up on the animal. Quartel and another _vaquero_ were bunched together in
the lead. Quartel raked his _trigueño_ with those huge Chihuahua guthooks, and
the horse spurted ahead, drawing up beside the bull. Quartel leaned out of the
saddle and made a grab for that lashing tail. But the blue bull jammed its
forefeet into the ground and came to a jarring halt, plowing twin furrows in the
earth. Quartel was several lengths on by before he could swing back in the
saddle and pull his horse around; by that time the bull had turned in a half
circle and cut for the brush. The other _vaquero_ had pulled up shorter than
Quartel, and was in a position to run down the bull on its quarter. He was a
tall, supple youth on a short-coupled horse they called a _bayo coyote_, its
coat a buckskin color with a black line running down the spine, with a black
mane and tail. Quartel spurred and quirted his _trigueño_ in a last desperate
effort to reach the bull first, but just at the edge of brush, the other
_vaquero_ pulled up beside the blue and leaned out to grab for that tail. He
caught its hairy end, and dallied it around his saddle horn, clapping the
guthooks to his _bayo coyote_ at the same time. The buckskin gave a spurt that
pulled it ahead of the blue bull, and just as the horse smashed into the first
thicket, the tail of the bull snapped taut, yanking its hind feet from beneath
it. The _vaquero_ tore the tail off his horn and hunched forward with his arm
before his face all at the same time, and as he disappeared into the thicket the
ground shook with the bull's falling. Huerta had come down from the house, and
he moved in behind Crawford. "I understand a good man can break the bull's neck
every time," he said. "Why don't you try it, Crawford?" Crawford's hands closed
tightly, and he did not look at Huerta. The inside of his mouth was dry and
cottony as he watched the _vaquero_ come back through the mesquite into the
open, prancing his _bayo coyote_ proudly. "You better go back to herding dogies,
Quartel," the _vaquero_ grinned, "and leave the grown ones to men." "If you're a
man, let's see your _reata_," roared Quartel, wheeling his _trigueño_ toward the
man and unlashing his 40-foot rope from his saddle. The rider fought his excited
buckskin around in a circle as he tore his own rope from the saddle, and when he
had completed the circle, the rope was free and the two riders were facing each
other about a hundred yards apart. "_Vamanos, Indita_," shouted Quartel, his
huge cart-wheel spurs gouging the brown into a headlong run toward the other
man. "Are they crazy?" said Huerta. "Stay around the border much and you'll get
used to it," Merida told him. "The _vaqueros_ used to do the same thing on the
rancho where I was born. They'd rather rope than eat." "Duello," said Crawford.
"With ropes?" It caused Huerta distinct effort to evince even the dim
incredulity. "Lot of 'em would rather fight with ropes than guns," Crawford told
him. "More than one lawman has been dragged to death here in the brush." It had
taken that long for the two riders to meet, passing one another not 10 feet
apart. At the last moment Quartel made a pass with his rope arm. Indita's own
throw caused him a hoarse exhalation that turned into a shout of triumph as he
saw his loop settling over Quartel's head. Then it happened. As much as he had
handled horses, Crawford did not think he had ever seen one turn so fast. One
instant the _trigueño_ was racing past the _bayo coyote_, the next it was facing
in the opposite direction, Quartel's own involuntary grunt still hanging in the
air to tell what a vicious effort he had put into the reining. The motion had
carried Quartel from beneath Indita's loop in that last moment, and now he sat
the _trigueño_ perfectly still, facing after Indita's retreating buckskin.
Quartel's first pass had been a feint, and he still retained his rope. It was so
slight a flirt of his hand that Crawford barely caught it. He did not spin the
loop above his head. He tossed it underhand, the way he had thrown it with
Africano in the corral. It was a hooley-ann, spinning flatly out above Indita,
seeming to hover above him an instant, no bigger than the brim of his sombrero;
then it was taut about his shoulders, and he was pulled over the back of his
horse with a resounding thump. "I ought to drag you for your presumption," said
Quartel, shifting his horse forward so he could get enough slack in his rope to
flirt it off Indita as the man rose. Then, pulling the rawhide clothesline in
with a series of quick, skillful snaps, he turned the _trigueño_ to prance it
over toward them, grinning at Merida. "How do you like that, _señorita_?" "I
have seen it done before," said Merida. Quartel's face darkened. "You don't
think I am any good?" "I didn't say that." "Listen," he shouted, thumping his
chest, "I am the best goddam roper in the world. I am the best goddam rider in
the world. I am--"

"Don't be a boor," said Huerta, in faint disgust. "A what?" Quartel wheeled the
horse around in a growing rage, the sweat greasing his coarse face. "I'll show
you." He started pounding his chest again. "I'll show you who's good. I'll make
you a bet. I'll bet you a _talega_ full of gold pesos that I can, blindfolded,
with one end of the _reata_ tied to my own neck and not to be touched by my
hands, riding a bareback horse of your own choosing, forefoot each of any ten
bulls we got in a pen, and break their necks." Huerta shrugged, smiling in a
faint, vague dismissal. Quartel reined the _trigueño_ in closer. "I mean it," he
bellowed. "Are you afraid to make the bet? Could anybody where you come from do
it?" "Frankly, I don't think anyone can do it," said Huerta, disinterestedly. "I
can," yelled Quartel. "I'm the best--"

"Don't be a fool, Quartel," the woman told him. "You'll kill yourself. One
mistake with that rope around your neck and you'll be dead." That was the final
impetus. "_Hijo de la chingada_," shouted Quartel, whirling his _trigueño_ away
from them. "How many bulls you got in that corral, Aforismo? Seven? Get me three
more. Get me three more from that holding pen across the arroyo. I'll show you
what roping really is, Merida. You're going to see a performance tonight you'll
never forget!" _Chapter Eight_

BEST ROPER IN THE WORLD

The throng about the large cedar-post corral was oddly subdued. Some of the
_vaqueros_ had dragged the blue bull over to the cooking fire for Jacinto to
spit, but the gross cook had left the carcass lying on the ground. He stood with
the middle bar of the fence making a deep indentation in the incredible
protuberance of his stomach as the crowding _vaqueros_ pressed in from behind.
"_Madre de Dios_, Crawford, why do you let him do this thing?" wailed the cook,
running his fat hands nervously up and down the rail. "I don't want to see a man
die." "Then why watch?" said Crawford. "Please, Crawford, you take such a brutal
attitude. Don't you know this is the way Oro Peso died down in Mexico? He was
the greatest roper in the world, Quartel's boasting to the contrary. Oro Peso
used to go around making this same bet. Then somebody took him up on it. The
third bull pulled him from his horse. His neck was broken like you'd snap a
switch of mesquite. Please--"

"Hola, _compadres_!" shouted Quartel, from outside the corral, and they saw that
he had stripped his _trigueño_ of its saddle. Indita dropped the bar and Quartel
trotted the animal in, laughing as the bulls bunched up on the other side,
bawling. "You see, already they are afraid of me. Who is going to put the
blindfold on? Merida, will you honor me?" "Why not?" The woman's voice held a
savage undertone that surprised Crawford. She caught his eyes on her and turned
toward Crawford. When she saw the look on his face, she threw her head back that
way, to laugh. It held a rich, wild mockery. "What's the matter, Crawford? Don't
you like that in a woman? Maybe you haven't known the right women." Still
laughing, she reached through the bars to tie the bandanna behind Quartet's head
as the man slipped off the _trigueño_ and turned his back to her. Then he swung
aboard again, and tied one end of the rope he was carrying about his thick neck
in a noose, too small to slip over his head. Merida's face was flushed excitedly
as she watched him prance the _trigueño_ away, and her eyes flashed in frank
anticipation. Huerta pulled out his cigarette case and put a smoke into his jade
holder. His motions were as languid as ever, but Crawford thought his fingers
pinched the holder more tightly than was necessary. "Hola!" shouted Quartel,
wheeling his _trigueño_ in the middle of the corral and kicking its flanks with
his heels. The horse charged toward the bulls, and the animals strung out along
the fence. Quartel was an uncanny judge of distance; when his horse was but half
a length from the fence, he made a quarter turn and raced along the bars after
the last bull in the running bunch. "_Andale!_" yelled the man, and made his
toss. The loop snaked about the forefeet of that last bull as it turned at the
corner of the corral, and as Quartel felt the rope snap taut, he let go
completely with his hands, pulling his thick neck down into his shoulders to set
it and jerking back with his torso at the last moment. The bull turned a flip,
its shoulder striking the rump of the running animal in front, and as the
falling bull struck, Quartel shoved his reins hard against the _trigueño's_ neck
to wheel inward and give himself slack on the rope. He clutched for the
slackening rawhide and sent a flirt down the rope that lifted the loop off the
bull's forelegs, and when he turned away, he was pulling the line in. "_Viva
Quartel, viva!_" shouted the _vaqueros_, shoving Crawford up against the fence
with their shifting press and deafening him with their cheers. Grinning, Quartel
kicked the _trigueño_ after the bulls again. It started them off once more,
bawling and running. Quartel's hearing was as uncanny as his judgment of
distance; he rode with his head lifted, and when a scarred brindle bull broke
from the others, running along the fence and cutting across the middle of the
corral, Crawford could see Quartel's head turn after the animal. The Mexican
reined his _trigueño_ over that way, kicking it into a dead run that closed the
space between himself and the bull in a swift instant. "_Ahora_," he shouted,
"now," and tossed. His rope caught the bull's hind feet instead of its forefeet,
and as a strange sighing sound rose from the crowd, Quartel must have sensed
something was wrong, for he spurred the _trigueño_ brutally, and its frenzied
leap into a headlong run gave him slack enough in the rope for that last moment
to send a flirt down its length that carried the loop off the bull's hind feet
before it could draw closed. The bull stumbled into the other animals as they
turned the corner and milled down this side of the corral. By that time Quartel
had his rope coiled, and he maneuvered the bawling, excited animals so that they
strung out down the fence once more, and then ran his horse up behind the last
one. This time it was the forefeet, and he dropped the animal, breaking its neck
as before. The end of the rope about Quartel's neck was not a slip noose, but
Crawford could see the rawhide dig into the thick brown flesh of Quartel's neck
as he jerked back, till the skin showed a white ridge above and below the lasso.
He watched in undeniable fascination as the Mexican flirted in the rope and
turned his horse after them once more. Shouting, Quartel closed the gap between
himself and another bull and made his toss. He released the lasso with his hand
as soon as it was in the air. The instant that loop caught on the running bull's
forefeet, Quartel reined his _trigueño_ in a quarter turn that wheeled it away
from the running bull. The bull's own forward motion would draw the noose tight
about its legs, and the turning maneuver of the horse would stretch the rope
taut between them as soon as that noose was completely closed. In that instant,
with the bull hitting the end of the rope and flipping, Quartel had to wheel his
horse back or be pulled off. He had already turned the _trigueño_ away from the
bull, and the noose was making its singing sound closing on those churning
forefeet, when a big _hosco golondrino_ cut away from the other animals running
along the fence and turned out into the corral, directly across the head of the
_trigueño_. Quartel's huge neck sank into his shoulders, and he put the reins
against the _trigueño's_ neck to swerve it back as he felt the rope snapping
taut. But the turn would have run the horse head-on into the _hosco golondrino_.
It was the first time Crawford had seen that _trigueño_ fight the bit; its head
turned in and its neck arched, it lurched in the opposite direction from
Quartel's reining. "Crawford," screamed Merida, and then the full weight of the
falling bull hit the end of that rope with Quartel going in the wrong direction
to take the shock. He made a small, choked sound as he was snapped off the
_trigueño's_ rump. Crawford was not conscious of going through the bars. He
found himself on the inside of the corral, with someone climbing through the
rails on his left. He did not realize who it was till he had started running
toward Quartel where he was rolling across the ground. Then from the corner of
his eye, Crawford caught the white flutter of Merida's fichu. "Get back, you
crazy fool," he screamed at her, diving headlong at her as a couple of crazed
bulls charged by. He struck her with his arms around her waist and carried her
back against the bars as a third animal crashed past where she had been
standing. He rolled to his feet, leaving her there huddled up against the fence,
and dodged through another pair of the bawling, frenzied animals, coughing in
the dust. The bull Quartel had thrown was scrambling to its feet, the _reata_
still caught around one foreleg. Crawford saw the slack rope hiss taut as the
animal broke into a stumbling gallop, and knew he could never reach it in time.
If Quartel's neck were not already broken, his head would be pulled from his
body now. Another bull went past behind Crawford, its shoulder sending him
spinning, and he threw himself bodily toward the rope where it lay tautening
across the ground, in a last desperate effort to try and get it before the bull
had stretched it completely. But even as he did so, he saw Quartel had risen to
his hands and knees. Still blindfolded, the man must have heard the sing of the
rope and known what was occurring. He gave his head one dazed shake and jumped
to his feet, sinking his neck in that way and throwing himself backward. His
body was at a three-quarter angle when the rope snapped taut; he would have
fallen completely if the line had not caught him. The impetus of his jerking
back that way and the weight of his body combined to upset the bull once more.
The ground shuddered to the falling animal. Crawford heard the crack of its
broken neck. "How's that, Huerta?" laughed Quartel, running forward to slacken
the rope so he could flirt the loop free. "I told you I wouldn't pull on it by
hand. Did you see that? I didn't touch it with my hands, did I? I'll bet you
never saw a roper could do that down around Mexico City. Even Oro Peso. Did you
think I was finished? Not with a neck like that. I could throw ten bulls all at
once. Where's my horse? Bring me that _trigueño_. I'm not through yet. Not with
a neck like that." In a daze, Crawford picked himself off the ground, seeing
Indita run out to corner the _trigueño_ and lead him over to the sweating,
roaring Quartel. Stumbling back to the fence, Crawford watched the whole crazy
performance begin once more. It was a nightmare of shouting _vaqueros_ and
bawling bulls and singing ropes and clouds of acrid russet dust obscuring the
whole pattern every time the animals broke into a run. Quartel took three casts
to nail the seventh bull, and it was obvious he was tiring. "Three more,"
Crawford heard Jacinto mumbling beside him. "Three more. Oh, _madre de Dios_,
let him get over with this, will you, and I'll never forget to say my rosary
again. Three more, three more--"

Two more. One more. "Hola!" shouted the Mexican, "_ahora_," and the rope spun,
and caught, and tautened, and the ground shook as the last bull broke its neck.
Coiling in the rope, Quartel spurred the _trigueño_ to the gate, ripping off his
blindfold. They were all running that way, Aforismo catching the man as he slid
off the lathered, quivering horse, pounding him on the back. Even Merida had
lifted her skirts to run that way, drawn by the excitement. Quartel came through
the crowd, sweating and grinning and pounding himself on the chest with his
hairy fist. "I told you. The best roper in the world. What do you think of it,
Huerta? Have you ever seen better? Was Oro Peso better?" Then a thought seemed
to strike him, and he sobered, looking around at the _vaqueros_. "When I was
pulled off the horse. Someone was in the corral. I heard them." The hubbub sank
until there was only the muffled sound of stirring bodies, and Quartel saw the
direction their glances had taken, one after another. He stared at Crawford in
disbelief. "You--"

Crawford shrugged, sullenly. "It was automatic, I guess. I didn't think." "Yes."
Huerta allowed twin streamers of gray smoke to escape his nostrils. "I wonder
what would have happened if you had stopped to think." Crawford flushed, turning
toward him, but Quartel came forward, clapping his hand on Crawford's shoulder.
"Huerta, I'm surprised at you. After all, he saved my life. And how about you. A
_talega_ of pesos." "I made no wager," said Huerta, tapping ash from his
cigarette. The blood swept into Quartel's face, and he stepped forward to grab
the lapels of Huerta's coat with one huge hand, jerking the man toward him.
"Huerta, I bet you a _talega_ of pesos--"

"I made no wager." Huerta had not moved his hands. One of them still held the
cigarette holder at his side; the other rested in the pocket of his coat. But he
was looking into Quartel's eyes, and his own eyes had opened wider. The veined
dissolution of his heavy bluish lids had lifted until the whole pupil was
visible. "That's right, that's right," said Jacinto nervously. "Huerta didn't
take up your bet, Quartel. You was so busy shouting and all you didn't wait to
see if he'd made the bet with you." "If he had, he'd pay me," said Quartel,
still looking into Huerta's eyes, an indefinable puzzlement drawing a faint
furrow through his brow, and something else. Abruptly he turned around, raising
his voice. "_Caramba_, if I ain't going to get a _talega_ of pesos, I should get
some kind of reward. You don't see a rodeo like that every day. How about it,
Merida? I want a reward--"

He had shoved through the crowd toward her, catching her around the waist.
Apparently not divining his intent at first, she had been smiling, her face
still flushed with that excitement. But as he caught her and bent his face to
hers, the smile twisted into a grimace. She threw her forearm across his neck
and tried to lever him away. "_Vayase con la música a otra parte_," she cried,
anger causing her to break into Spanish. "_Tu barrachon, largo de aqui, tu
chile, no puedo sufrir su insolencia--_"

"My insolence?" laughed Quartel, grasping her wrist and tearing it from between
them. The force of it drew a gasp of pain from Merida; she began writhing more
violently in his embrace, and tried to scratch his face with the other hand. But
he caught that too, and forced both her hands behind her until he had her wrists
crossed with his arms about her waist. In that last moment, he quit grinning.
Crawford had seen the same expression in the man's face before, when he looked
at Merida, but never so palpable, never so clearly recognizable. His voice came
from deep in his throat, husky and sensual and demanding. "_Besame, querida_,"
he said, and lowered his sweating face to hers. "Let her go, Quartel!" The
Mexican stopped, with his lips not quite touching Merida. The woman's body
ceased to writhe; she stood there in his arms, bent backward like a bow, looking
up at him. Without releasing her, Quartel raised his head and turned it over his
shoulder till he could see Crawford. It had taken Crawford that long to get
through the laughing, shouting crowd; they were no longer making any noise, and
they had spread away from him. He stood there with his boots spread a little on
the hard-packed dirt and the weight of his shoulders thrown forward, the bitter
intensity of his face only accentuating its gauntness. "Oh." The word came out
softly, slyly on Quartel's breath. "Maybe you'd rather be the one to kiss her.
First he saves my life, then he wants to take my woman away." "Your woman?"
gasped Merida. "Take your hands off, damn you--"

"Don't swear at me, Crawford." The hurt tone of Quartel's voice held that pawky
mockery. "I thought we were _amigos_. I thought you saved my life in the
corrals." "Quartel--"

"_Sí?_" The man had released Merida and wheeled to face Crawford. For a moment
he stood there, his heavy chest rising and falling gently with his breathing.
The mockery faded from his face, leaving a heavy, deliberate intent. His shift
to the side was unhurried, but Crawford's effort to keep facing the man came in
a swift, spasmodic reaction. Then Quartel stood there again. "Nobody swears at
me, Crawford," he said, and then, moving with incredible speed for such a bulky
man, he leaped forward. Crawford had been waiting for something, but it came so
fast his move to block it was aborted. Quartel had him by the shoulders,
knocking him off balance, and Crawford had to stumble backward to keep from
falling. "Do you understand that?" Quartel was shouting it now, hoarsely,
allowing his ebullience to escape finally. "I'm _amansador_, here, I'm foreman,
and nobody swears at me or tries to stop me whatever I'm doing. I rod this
outfit and I can do anything I want and nobody can stop me, do you hear?" It was
then Crawford realized what he had brought up against. Stumbling backward, he
had lurched into the _trigueño_ and it had kept him from falling. He was held
against it now by Quartel's hands gripping his shoulders. The animal heat of it
penetrated through his shirt, and something else clawed at him, somewhere way
down in his vitals. In a new spasm, Crawford tried to lurch free of Quartel's
grip; but the man had still managed to keep him off balance, and he was held
there, with his knees bent and his body pushed off to one side so that he had no
leverage. He was shoved back hard against the horse again, and the hot, living,
hairy, animal resilience of it against his back intensified that vague alarm
inside him. "Do you hear me, Crawford, do you hear me--"

Quartel's voice came through to him as if the man were far away. Crawford was
writhing from side to side, trying to escape, but he was still held at that
disadvantage. He had his hands on the man's arms, tearing at them. The effort
rocked Quartel from side to side, but failed to loosen his grip. Crawford's face
was twisted, and he was gasping hoarsely, because it was growing in him now,
raking at him insistently with its subtle, insidious nails. His legs were
beginning to tremble and the muscles across his belly were twisting up into
little involuntary knots. "Let go, let go--"

The violent movement and their shouting had excited the horse, and it began to
shift around behind Crawford. It had been standing there against the fence where
Quartel left it when he slid off. Crawford had it pinned up against the bars,
and the animal whinnied nervously, trying to get from between him and the fence.
Aforismo moved from the crowd to grab the _trigueño's_ reins and pull its head
down. "What's the matter, Juarez?" he said. "Crawford, don't do that, you're
spooking this horse." "Yeah, quit shouting!" roared Quartel. "Can't you see what
you're doing to my _trigueño_? Hasn't he been through enough today? Quit jumping
around like that." He realized what they were doing. That had been the intent in
Quartel's face. It didn't help him now to understand. Nothing helped him now. It
had its grip on him. His struggles had become a blind, frenetic effort to
escape. Not from Quartel, now. It was the horse. The shrill sound of the
_trigueño's_ whinny and the rising turbulence of the beast's nervous movement
against him drove Crawford to a new violence in his attempts at escape. It was
no longer small or vague in him. It filled his whole consciousness. It spread
through his legs and lower body in a clutching, stabbing pain that caused his
knees to tremble and jerk. It filled his chest with a terrible constriction. And
as before, the pain was rapidly turning to something else. "Let go, damn you,
let go--"

He was screaming it now, in animal panic, his face contorted, his whole body
writhing and struggling in a blind frenzy that only excited the horse further.
He felt it rear up, and would have fallen backward beneath it had not Aforismo
yanked it down hard with his grip on the reins. The hot hide was wet with
nervous sweat against Crawford's back, and he could feel the ripple of its
muscle with every movement it made, and every ripple sent a new wave of panic
through him. All reason was gone from his mind and he was sinking into a dark
vortex of that terrible panic like a cow sinking into a black bog. "What's the
matter, Crawford? Are you afraid of the horse?" "Let go, please, for God's sake,
let go." "What's the matter, Crawford?" "Leggo, leggo, leggo--"

He stopped screaming. It took him a long time to comprehend he was no longer
being held against the horse. He crouched there on his knees where he had fallen
when Quartel had stepped back, releasing him. The movement of the animal behind
him raised a flurry of dirty brown dust. Coughing in it, Crawford stared up at
Quartel. The rage had disappeared from Quartel's face. His lips were spread in
that pawky smile. "Sure," he said, "I'll let you go. What will you do if I let
you go?" Aforismo had pulled the _trigueño_ out from behind him now, and
Crawford crouched there on his hands and knees, black hair falling dankly over
his feverish eyes. He looked like a trapped animal, his breath escaping him in
hoarse gasps, his head turning in quick jerks as his wild glance leaped from one
person to another. First it was Merida. There was a desperate plea in the way
she bent toward him, her bosom rising and falling, her red lower lip dropped
away from the shadowed white line of her teeth, glistening damply. Then Huerta,
managing to convey a bored amusement without actually expressing anything in his
face, as he studied Crawford distantly. And Jacinto, great, lugubrious globules
of sweat sliding down his brown face, wringing his fat hands, making small,
unintelligible sounds of pain. A vagrant anger swept Crawford and he tried to
collect it and hold it in him, bitter and acrid and violent. But it held no
strength, and a shift of the wind swept the fetor of the _trigueño_ to him once
more, and the anger disappeared. There was none of the spasm of panic now. It
was heavy and oppressive in him, holding him down like a physical weight,
robbing him of all resolve, dominating all other emotion. He was still shaking
violently, and the salty tears blinded him. He felt a dim impulse to move twitch
at his legs, and he knew a moment there when he thought he could rise. Then he
heard the guttural, frustrated sound he made, and knew he was still on the
ground, and felt an overpowering impulse to give way and cry. "I thought so,"
said Quartel, and turned to take the reins from Aforismo. He checked the animal
to prevent its whirling away from him, and jumped onto its back. He released the
rein, and the _trigueño's_ head came around with a snap as it spun to trot off
toward the fires. The other _vaqueros_ followed one by one, in an uncomfortable
silence. Huerta patted a yawn. "They've got some cane chairs over under those
coma trees," he said. "I think I'll watch the proceedings from there. Coming,
Merida?" She did not answer. She was looking at Crawford, her face pale. Huerta
shrugged, moved languidly across the dusty compound. Then it was just the two of
them, with Crawford finally gaining his feet, unable to meet her eyes. Merida's
weight had settled back onto her high heels slowly. That ripe lower lip had
contracted against her teeth till her mouth was twisted across them faintly. Her
husky voice was barely audible. "I had hoped Huerta was wrong." He stared at
her, wanting to turn and run, unable to, somehow, and finally it came from him,
guttural, hardly recognizable. "Whadda you mean?" "About that fellow in the
mine," she said. "Whaddaya mean?" Had that been him? Shrill, and cracked, like
that? "You know what I mean," she said. "Not only pain. Fear. And not only fear
of what originally caused the pain." "No--"

"Yes!" she said thinly. "Yes! It's not just the horses any more. It's
everything. You're a coward, Crawford. You're a coward!" _Chapter Nine_

STILL IN THE THROES OF FEAR

The girandole candelabra on the mantel looked like a brooding ghoul in the
evening gloom which shrouded the living-room of Otis Rockland's house. The
French windows at the front extended completely to the floor, double-hung sashes
forming the upper half, paneled gates of unpolished oak being the lower section.
The damask hangings had been pulled across during the afternoon to shut out the
sun, but the windows themselves were partly ajar, allowing the sounds from the
corrals to enter the room. Someone was playing a guitar over there where they
were still roasting the bulls that had been killed. A woman's laugh came dimly.
Crawford raised his head a moment where he sat in a willow chair by the window;
then he lowered it once more into his hands. His face was bleak and empty. He
did not know how long it was since he had come here, unable to face them out
there. When the creak of the porch came mutedly to him, he gave no sign. Then
there was more sound, louder, more recognizable. His head lifted as the noise
terminated with a muffled crash. "Crawford!" Just once like that, shrill and
cracked. He got to his feet and ran to the door, tearing it open. It was the
side table in the entrance hall which had made the crash. Merida must have
pulled it over, falling. The marble top had smashed, and a piece of it lay on
the floor beside her. The front door stood open wide. "Merida?" he said,
dropping to one knee. "You fell?" "No." She stirred feebly, rising to one elbow
with his help, hanging her head over against his knee a moment. The kitchen door
opened, and her maid padded down the hall in bare feet, a small, wizened Indian,
so dark she looked negroid, dressed in nothing more than a white cotton shift.
"It's all right, Nexpa," Merida told her. "A little accident. Crawford will help
me to my room." She allowed him to help her up the stairs, leaning heavily on
his arm. The warmth of her body flowed through Crawford, and when they reached
the second floor he was breathing heavily. Beyond the last step, Merida pulled
away from him, her eyes meeting his in a swift, unreadable way. She turned and
moved toward her room, halting a moment outside Huerta's closed door, as if
listening. Then she opened the door of her bedroom. He had kept from asking by
an effort, but now he followed her in hesitantly, speaking. "Huerta came up?"
She closed her door softly. "He wasn't at the corrals when I left." "Maybe he
got hungry for his red beans." Her face lifted to him, eyes widening, and he
shrugged. "Jacinto said something about dope." She pursed her lips, moving
around him toward the table. "Couldn't you see it? Opium when we were in Mexico
City. Peyote now." "Those beans." "Yes. You've heard it. The Indians call it
_raíz diabólica_. Devil weed. They've been using it for centuries in Mexico.
Even the Aztecs knew of it. They called it peyotl. It's effect isn't as marked
as opium. He seems capable of eating those beans all day. They make a drink of
it that's more potent." "He said something about a complaint," Crawford told
her. Her mouth twisted somewhat. "Maybe he has an old wound. He's been around.
He'd take dope anyway. That's just the kind he is. You saw the kind. Dissolute?
I don't know. Whatever you want." She had got a punk off the table and was
lighting the candles in the porcelain candelabra supported by oak wall brackets.
Then she saw how he was looking at her, and turned part way. "What is it?" He
looked away. "Nothing." She caught his arm, turning him back. "No," she said.
"It is something. Huerta?" Crawford pulled away from her hand, uncomfortable,
somehow. "I just can't see you with him. You're not the type." "What type do you
think I am?" He started to answer. Then he moved his shoulders again, letting
out a muted, rueful sound. "I guess I don't know, really, do I?" "Don't you?"
She was meeting his glance with a wide, candid demand in her eyes. "Santa Anna's
chests?" he said. She drew in a long, slow breath, and nodded, finally. "You do
know, then," she murmured, almost inaudibly. "You have known, all along." She
hesitated, studying him. When she spoke again, her voice was stronger. "That's
inconceivable to you, isn't it?" "No--"

"Yes!" She blew out the punk with the word. "You've lived in the _brasada_ most
of your life. Money to you represents no more than a barren, lonely ranch like
this and a herd of cattle to support it. You have no conception of what riches
can really mean. Not just the horses, the servants, the jewels. The grace,
Crawford, the ease, the beauty, the way of life." An intensity had gripped her
voice, and her face was flushed. "Do you know what it is to be a peon in Mexico?
No. You've never seen it, have you? You've seen the women in the brush here,
living like animals in a one-room mud house with nothing but a cotton sheet for
a dress. That's nothing. They're rich. They're hidalgos compared with a real
peon. I should know. I was one, Crawford. I won't be one again. I'd rather steal
and lie and cheat. I'd rather murder. Can you understand that? I will, if it's
necessary. I--"

She broke off, breathing deeply, looking wide-eyed up at him. Then a short
bitter laugh escaped her, and she turned away, the line of her shoulders bowing
faintly. Light drew a soft glow from the rich black hair drawn tightly across
the back of her head. With a new understanding of the woman, he stepped in
behind her. "All right," he said. The simple acceptance of that drew her around.
They were standing so close her breast touched his when it stirred faintly to
her breathing. "You were going to tell me what happened downstairs," he
murmured. "_Derrotero?_" she said, watching his face narrowly. It was an effort
to keep it expressionless. "The map?" "It's why Huerta wanted to keep you here
in the first place," she said. "Quartel and Tarant were against it, but Huerta
thought you had some reason for coming here. He was right, Crawford. Nothing
else could make you take what they've been doing. You've got part of the
_derrotero_, and you think one of us has the rest. Well, one of us has!" She
turned around and did something with the waist of her dress, beneath the fichu.
When she turned back, she held a piece of torn, yellowed paper in her hand.
"There are three pieces to the map," she said. "This is one of them." "Lopez?"
he asked. "Yes," she muttered. "Santa Anna had many wives. My mother was one.
You will recall that the captain of the mule train sent one third of the map to
Santa Anna himself. It was about all my mother got out of Santa Anna's estate
when he died." "Who was it downstairs?" he asked. "He came from behind. It was
dark. I did not see." He stared at the section of paper a long time, scratching
his dirty beard with a thumbnail. "Huerta's been trying to find out all along if
I have the _derrotero_. The fact that he doesn't know for sure has kept him from
making any definite move, one way or another. What would he do if he found out,
for sure, one way or another?" "Why should he find out?" she said. "You're with
Huerta." "Am I?" she said, moving in close again. "Maybe I _was_." "You tried
that before," he said. "No," she said hotly. "Will you never trust me, Crawford?
I want to help you. Not just the map. That doesn't matter, now. Out there, with
the _trigueño_. I'm sorry for what I called you." "Maybe you were right," he
said, bitterly. "No! You're not a coward, intrinsically. Can't you see what they
were doing? Maybe Huerta was the first to see how it was--about your legs. Now
they all know. They're using it, Crawford. Quartel used it today. He shoved you
up against the horse and held you there till you were half-crazy with panic. He
knew you wouldn't fight him in that state. It wasn't fear of him that
demoralized you. It was horrible to watch." She reached up to grasp his elbows
with her hands, lifting her weight toward him. "But I've seen what you used to
be, too. When you brought Whitehead back. No coward could have done that. Come
back, with Whitehead that way, knowing what you would have to face, here. Do you
realize what it did to me? To come out on the porch that morning and see you
standing there beside Whitehead's body, knowing what it meant. It doesn't happen
to a person often in her life, Crawford. That sort of feeling. Let me help you,
Crawford. I want to. I can't if you don't trust me." She was up against him now,
almost sobbing it, and his hands had slid around her waist, the flesh hot and
silken against his palm through her gown. For one last moment he tried to fight
it. But he had fought so long, so alone, without anyone, and the warm resilience
of her body against him filled Crawford with a giddy weakness. "Merida," he
muttered thickly, bending her back, "Merida--"

She pulled away, her face flushed. "I can't--if you don't trust me--"

He held her that way, breathing heavily, her back arched away from him by the
pressure of her hands against his chest. He searched her wide, dark eyes, and
found no guile there. Still filled with that desire and driven by it, he made a
guttural, inarticulate sound, releasing her, and took one step to the bed,
lowering himself on the embroidered muslin coverlet. He bent to take off his
right Justin. The fancy stitching across the top of the boot unknotted, and he
pulled it away from half a dozen eyelets in the leather, revealing a double
thickness which formed a pocket. "Used to keep my money here," he said, pulling
out the piece of parchment Rockland had given him. The woman's hand trembled as
she took it from him, laying it on the bed beside her piece, fitting them
together. Then her pale finger crossed the map until it reached a word printed
on his section. Her voice was no more than a whisper. "Mogotes Serpientes."
"Yeah," he said, watching her. "Yeah. I never got around to using the map.
Kenmare was on my tail a lot since I left San Antonio. I didn't take too much
stock in the story anyway. Del never told me anything about it, and it was his
uncle supposed to have been captain of that mule train. How did Rockland get
hold of this portion?" "Delcazar's uncle escaped to Mexico City, where he died,
his effects being turned over to the family lawyer down there," she said.
"Rockland originally wanted the Delcazar land up here for the water. He sent
Tarant down to Mexico City to make sure there was nothing in the Delcazar papers
which would prevent having clear title to the land when he got hold of it.
Tarant found this part of the chart when he was going through those papers." She
straightened slowly, allowing her gaze to reach his face. "Do you know who has
the other piece, Crawford?" "No," he said. Her eyes grew blank; and he stood
swiftly, grasping her hand. "I've trusted you, Merida. Now you've got to trust
me. I don't know." "It's got to be more than trust now," she said. "We're in it
together, Crawford. If I'm to help you, you've got to help me. Will you?"
"Haven't I proved that?" he said, trying to pull her toward him with that hand.
"Anything, Merida--"

She held back, calculation hardening the planes of her face. "Perhaps I should
have said, _can_ you?" Just the feel of her wrist in his fingers that way, soft
and satiny, started it up again in him, and he quit trying to pull her in, and
took a step in toward her. "What horse you on now?" "I mean, maybe you can't.
Maybe you're incapable of it. You can't do much the way you are now, Crawford.
You're only half a man. It's not just the horses any more. It's your whole life.
Everything you do is affected by it. I've thought of trying to get you a gun. A
dozen times. It would be hard, but I might be able to do it. To stay unarmed
here, like this--" She put her free hand against his chest to stop him. "What
good would it do, Crawford? If you'd had a gun, would you have used it today?
Quartel carries one. Would you have pulled yours on him?" No woman had ever
affected him so violently before. Hardly aware of what she was saying, the blood
pounding through his head, he sought to force her hand aside and bend his face
to hers, wanting only to feel her against him again. "Merida," he said, the
blood so thick in his throat it made him sound strangled, "I told you--
anything--"

She took a deep, ragged breath, and he could not tell whether she was fighting
him or herself, now. "No, Crawford. It wouldn't be any different with a gun. Not
the way you are now. A gun wouldn't do you any more good than your bare hands.
Quartel wanted you to fight him with your hands. You wouldn't even do that.
Nothing will do you any good until you can step on a horse again without feeling
that pain in your legs--that fear." She forced herself away, saying it in a cold
tone, "Africano?" It was like throwing ice water on a fire. All his ardor
disappeared before the abrupt clutch of fear that word engendered in him. He
stiffened for a moment, still holding that one hand. Then he dropped it and
stepped back, his mouth twisted. Just the word, like that. Just the name. "Yes."
The heavy rise and fall of Merida's breast abated as she studied him, the candor
gone from her face now, a cold, critical speculation filling her eyes as she
studied him. "Perhaps I was wrong, Crawford. Perhaps you can't help me. Perhaps
I can't help you." "No? Let me show you," he said desperately. _Chapter Ten_

FLIGHT FROM SNAKE THICKETS

This time of night did strange things to the brush. The moon had not yet risen
enough to light fully the trails winding their secretive way through the jealous
chaparral, and what vague dim light did seep through the gloom held a reflected,
synthetic quality. Most of the _vaqueros_ were in a drunken stupor when Crawford
and the woman left the house, getting one of Rockland's prized copperbottoms and
a pinto mare from the corrals without being detected. They rode north from the
spread, following one of the ancient game traces which the _vaqueros_ used when
working the cattle. In the eerie illumination, the berries ripening on the
granjeno bushes formed yellow shadow patches against the velvet backdrop of
darkness farther back, and the white filament of the horse-maimer was turned to
a sick erubescence where it crouched on a stony ridge. Crawford caught the dim
glow of the cactus's silky blossoms, and pulled his reins in a hard jerk against
the pinto's neck. The animal shied to the right, away from the horse-maimer.
"Crawford!" The woman said it softly from behind him, a controlled anger in her
voice. She moved the copperbottom up beside him, peering at his face. "It's all
right," he said impatiently. "Crawford," she said again, in that low, insistent
tone. He tried to relax his legs against the pinto. Just a walk, and they were
like that. He felt his shirt sticking to his armpits and knew the sweat was
showing on his face. That terrible frustration was biting at him. "I told you it
was all right," he said harshly. A savagery entered her voice, struggling with
that restraint. "Will you quit trying to hide it, Crawford. From me. From
yourself. I know all about it now. I've seen it. There's no use being ashamed of
it with me. It's there. We both recognize it. Admit it. That's the first thing
you've got to do." "All right. I'm afraid. Every time it moves. Every time it
bats an eyelash. Every time it--"

He stopped, realizing how violent the release had been, and it seemed the
mocking echoes of his voice were dying down the sombrous lanes of the brush. He
turned away from her, feeling a new wave of shame. "That's better than nothing,"
she said. The tone of Merida's voice made him turn back to her. She must have
been waiting for that, because the movement brought his eyes around to hers.
"When you wouldn't meet Quartel back at the bull-tailing," she said, "I
condemned you for being a coward. I'll never do it again. You may be afraid, but
I'll never condemn you for it. The only thing I'll condemn you for is refusing
to face your fear." He felt his legs relaxing slightly, and for a moment the
beat of his heart diminished. He had never talked with anyone about it like this
before. He had kept it locked within himself, refusing to look at it, refusing
to admit it even to himself. "Do your legs hurt now?" she said. "A little." His
voice was tight. "Crawford--"

"All right. A lot. They hurt like hell. I hurt all over. Does that satisfy you?"
"This the river?" she said. He pulled the pinto to a stop and stepped off
stiffly. He stood there a moment with his face into the horse, trembling
faintly. When he moved away from the animal, the nebulous pain subsided somewhat
in his loins. Yet the animal's very proximity kept the irritation in his
consciousness. When he pulled the map from his shirt, his hand twitched
spasmodically, and he almost tore the paper. She took the paper from his
uncertain hands, moving into the best of the bizarre light. They had ridden
north in order to strike the Nueces River where the route on his portion of the
_derrotero_ started. The woman hunkered down on the ground, spreading the paper
out. There was something wild about her figure, crouching there like that, her
dark head brooding over the chart. She looked up abruptly. It caused him to make
a small, involuntary movement, realizing how he had been watching her. He
squatted down beside her, seeing the scarlet tip of her finger descend to the
words printed in Spanish at one end of the chart. "Montezuma Embrujada?" "Yeah,"
he said. "You can see them right across the river. I don't know why they're
called the Haunted Ruins. It's just an old Spanish fort they had here to guard
the gold trains coming from the San Saba Mines." Her finger moved down the line
on the paper to the next spot. "Chapotes Platas." "Silver Persimmons. A bunch of
persimmon trees growing about five miles south of here that look silver in the
moonlight. I been by there sometimes chousing cattle with Delcazar." "Tinaja de
la Tortuga." Her finger had passed on to the third spot marked on the upper
portion of the map. "Turtle Sink, we call it," he said. "There's the biggest old
granddaddy turtle you ever saw living there, but I never saw any water."
"Veredas Coloradas--"

"You got me now," he said. "I told you nobody's seen all of the _brasada_.
Delcazar knows more about it than anybody else I ever knew, but he can't tell me
where Snake Thickets are, or what's in Lost Swamp." "This is still on the
portion of the map you had," she said. He nodded. "It's new brush to me and
thicker'n heel flies in spring. It takes a machete to get through." Her finger
was trailing on down the line, crossing the jagged tear in the paper, marking
the spots noted on the second portion of the _derrotero_. "Llano Sacaguista,
Puenta Piedra, Resaca Perdida--you don't know any of these?" He shook his head.
"I told you. I've never been down that way. I've heard of some. Puenta Piedra,
for instance. There's supposed to be a natural stone bridge somewhere along the
Rio Diablo. And most everybody in the brush has heard the tales about Lost
Swamp." "Puenta Piedra is beyond that thick brush," she said. "Why not skirt
that section of the _brasada_ until we strike Rio Diablo? If Puenta Piedra is
somewhere along Rio Diablo, we should find it by following the river's course.
Then maybe we can follow the chart from Puenta Piedra on down to the Snake
Thickets." "We won't get back before daylight," he said. "I don't care." She
rose with a toss of her head. "Let them know we've been hunting the chest. I
told you there wasn't any time left to beat about the bush." "And what have we
got when we do reach Snake Thickets?" he said. "Don't ask me!" She seemed to
allow herself full release for the first time. Her face was flushed and she
swung aboard the copperbottom viciously. "All I know is I can't sit around that
house and wait for something to happen. The only way to find something is to go
out and hunt for it--"

She stopped, as she saw him standing there staring at the pinto. It had a little
roan in its black coloring which caused the dark spots to run over into the
white patches, giving a sloppy, splotched effect. It stirred faintly, snorting.
Merida saw what that did to him. "Crawford--"

There was a plea in her voice. She sat quiescent, waiting. His lips flattened
against his teeth. He moved slowly to the pinto, standing there, staring at the
sweaty saddle. The smell of it grew in his nostrils. He was filled with the
impulse to turn and run. His body twitched with it. "Crawford--"

He put his foot in the stirrup and stepped aboard. Silver Persimmons, Turtle
Sink, Rio Diablo. They were names on the chart. They were spots in the brasada.
They were names in his head and their reality blended with black letters on
faded parchment. He lost all sense of time. His only consciousness was of
movement. No telling how long it took them from Haunted Ruins to Silver
Persimmons. The weird brush floated past in a sea of mingled pain and trembling
and sweating. The stark arms of chaparral supplicated the night on every side.
The _cenizo's_ ashen hue had turned a sick lavender from recent rain, and it
reeled biliously into vision and out again. Then Chapotes Platas were gleaming
like newly minted coin beneath the risen moon. The woman talked sometimes,
watching Crawford, in a low, insistent way. "My mother was the _curandera_ of
the village. You have no idea how many plants those herb-women can make medicine
from. On Saturday we would go to the river a mile away and gather herbs. I used
to enjoy that. It was as far away from home as I got. The rest was mostly work.
Nothing very nice to remember. Choking to death in the fumes of the herbs my
mother had cooking constantly in the big brass kettle in our jacal. Rubbing my
eyes all day in the smoke. She was stone blind from that. Grinding corn on the
metate. I must have spent half my waking hours with that metate. Do you blame me
for marrying Capitán Mendoza when he asked? I didn't love him. He was brutal and
ugly. But he was stationed in Mexico City. I was fourteen at the time--"

Turtle Sink ceased to be inked words on yellowed paper and rose abruptly from
the shadowed depths of the brush--a stony water hole with sand white as bleached
bones covering its bottom and the scarred, mottled shell of a huge turtle barely
visible in the black shadow beneath one end. They were beyond that when the
sound of his breathing slid momentarily across the uppermost reaches of his
consciousness. It was not as labored, or as harsh. Then it was her voice,
floating in again. "After Mendoza died, riding with Diaz, I got a job
entertaining in a cafe near Collegio Militar. It was there I first met Huerta.
He taught me to speak English, gave me my first taste of what money can do.
Tarant had known Huerta before, and when Rockland sent him down to look into the
Delcazar papers, Tarant contacted Huerta to help him. Huerta was there when
Tarant came across the portion of the _derrotero_ Delcazar's uncle had
possessed. That's how Huerta knew Rockland would have it. When Huerta told me
about it, I showed him the portion of the map I had--"

Now it was his legs. First it had been his breath, now it was his legs. He
realized they were hanging free against the stirrup leathers. He was sitting a
horse without tension for the first time since Africano had rolled him. He
turned toward Merida. Maybe it was in his face. "Your legs don't hurt now, do
they?" He was almost afraid to speak. "No," he said, with a strange, husky
wonder in his voice. "No." He had never seen her smile with such rich sincerity,
and her voice trembled with a strange, joyful excitation. "Then we can,
Crawford, we can!" He stared at her, unable to answer. Then he averted his head,
lips thin against his teeth. Could they? He was afraid to answer it. Yet the
pain was gone. He could sit there with the movement of the horse beneath him and
its sweaty fetor reaching his nostrils in vagrant waves and feel no pain. And
with the cessation of his pain, the other things became more vivid in his
consciousness. He caught the faint honeyed odor of white brush from a draw to
his right, and drank in its full sweetness for the first time in months. The
woman saw that, and her lips lifted faintly. They reached Rio Diablo and turned
northward on its banks. It was the best water between the Nueces and the Rio
Grande, yet it was no more than a stream, its mucky course following a sandy
bottom that wandered in lazy loops through the _brasada_. "We're crossing
Delcazar's old spread now," Crawford told her. "You can see how much better
watering you'd get here than where Rio Diablo turns into Rockland's holdings.
That's why Rockland wanted to get hold of this stretch. When Rockland's dad
first got the Big O, they say the river was bank full from one end of his
pastures to the other. Couple more years and it will be completely dry there."
They passed the borders of what had once belonged to Pio Delcazar and came
across a grass-grown pile of stones on a clay bank while it was still dark, a
broken, hand-hewn timber thrusting its jagged end skyward from the rubble.
Crawford dismounted and moved about the area, bending now and then to squint at
certain spots. Then he stared across the river to where another heap of stones
stood on the far bank. "Puenta Piedra," he mused, tugging idly at his scraggly
black beard. "I wonder if those stories about a natural stone bridge could have
started from one the Spaniards built on the route south from San Antonio." "How
does this line up with Tinaja de la Tortuga?" He looked upward, turning his head
till he found Lucero, and raised his hand to it. "There's the Shepherd's Star.
And the one the Mexicans call La Guía. They're always fixed in relation to each
other. That leaves us almost due south of Turtle Sink." "That tallies with the
map," she said, spreading the parchment out against her horse's neck. "Red
Trails must be right in the middle of that thicket we skirted. And this is the
Puenta Piedra they mean. We have to turn east a little now to strike Llano
Sacaguista." He got onto the pinto without hesitation this time, and led down
into the brown muck of the shallow water and up the other bank. Llano Sacaguista
proved to be a vast open flat covered with greening sacaguista grass. He had
never traversed these particular flats, and beyond this was a stretch of brush
entirely foreign to him. They left Rio Diablo for a mile or so and then struck
it again. A block in the river caused by some ancient upheaval rendered the land
boggy here. The hollow boom of bullfrogs mingled with the other night sounds. A
'gator bellowed somewhere from the depths of the exotic brush. "Looks more like
East Texas," Crawford muttered. "I wonder if this could be Lost Swamp." He could
see the glow of excitement in the woman's eyes now. They pushed on southward
with the false dawn dropping an eerie light through the brush. The boggy section
fell behind, and the natural aridity of the _brasada_ returned. They were still
following the river, though it was nothing but a dry bed now, the trickle of
water having ceased where it ran into Lost Swamp. A true dawn was bringing light
to the sky in the east when they heard the first sound. It was a thin
sibilation, reminiscent of the mesquite sighing in a light breeze. Crawford
moved his pinto over beside Merida's copperbottom, halting both horses, to sit
there, listening. Then he touched a heel to the pinto's flank, moving it
carefully down into the very center of the river bed. The brush on either bank
grew more dense as they moved on up the dry bed, and began to gather here in the
bottoms now. The sound increased, too. The faint hissing was veritably ceaseless
now, rising and falling in a sibilant tide. Finally the brush was so thick in
the river bed they were having to force their way through. The pinto was
beginning to fiddle nervously. It shied, finally, and Crawford jerked it to a
stop, a vagrant wave of the old panic gripping him. He sat there a moment,
trying to control his breathing. "You wanted to know where Snake Thickets was,"
he said. "It looks like we're sitting right on the edge of it." There was a
vague awe in her voice. "It sounds as if all the snakes in Texas had gathered
here. Crawford--"

"Don't be loco," he said, seeing it in her eyes. "We wouldn't last two minutes
beyond this spot. If those Mexicans cached anything, it sure couldn't have been
inside here." "If?" Her tone was sharp; the excited glow fled her eyes, leaving
them narrow and speculative as she looked at him. "You still don't believe there
is any money." "I told you I was skeptical to begin with," said Crawford. "But
the part of the _derrotero_ you had--" she moved her hand in a vague, defensive
way--"coming all this way, putting up with all that back there--Quartel, Huerta,
Whitehead--surely--" She stopped as it must have struck her. A reserve crossed
her face, tightening the planes of her cheek, and that speculation deepened in
her eyes, accentuating, somehow, the oblique tilt of her brow. "Maybe I was
right the first time," she said finally. She leaned toward him slightly. "I
guess I should have seen it before this. You're hardly the type, are you? Money
wouldn't mean enough to you to put up with that." She stopped again, studying
him, and then a faint smile stirred her lips. "Which one of us do you think
murdered Otis Rockland?" He met her eyes for a moment, almost sullenly. Then a
vague unrest seeped through him. His saddle creaked as he shifted on the pinto,
and he turned his head upward, sniffing. She must have taken it for a discomfort
arising from her scrutiny, for that smile on her lips spread perceptibly. "I
didn't think you were that righteous," she said. He brought his eyes back to
hers with an effort, staring a moment before he comprehended. "Look," he said,
then, with a careful deliberateness. "I don't give a damn about Rockland being
killed. It's me, see. It's purely a selfish motive. I told you. A man gets tired
after a while. He gets tired jumping like a jack rabbit every time a tree toad
chirps. He gets tired running the brush all day and all night to keep one jump
ahead of those badge-packers. He gets tired living on raw meat because he's
afraid to build a fire, and sleeping in a bunch of mesquite because he can't get
near enough a house to get a blanket, and scratching his face off because he
hasn't even got so much as a knife to shave with." "Then why didn't you leave?"
He opened his mouth to say it. Then he closed it again, staring at her. Finally
he shrugged sullenly. "It's my country, that's all." "Is it?" she said. "Or
maybe I'm wrong again. Maybe Quartel was closer to the truth than any of us.
Where do you pin the badge? On your undershirt?" "I didn't think you'd
understand," he said. "It would be the most logical reason for your staying,
through all that," she said, studying him. "If you really are hoping to find
Rockland's murderer, that would be the most logical reason." "Let's close the
poke," he said. "And maybe that about your legs is wrong, too," her voice probed
relentlessly. "That would be a pretty good blind. Who would suspect them of
sending in a lawman who couldn't even sit a horse?" She must have meant it to
sting him. He saw some strange satisfaction in her face as he stiffened
perceptibly. "No--Merida--" He held out his hand, losing for a moment all sense
of the heavy antipathy which had fallen between them. Then it was that
restlessness, coming again, through the consciousness of her mocking eyes on
him. The pinto began to fiddle around in the sand, and the woman's copperbottom
raised its head, delicate nostrils fluttering. Merida looked at the animals,
frowning. "What is it?" she said. A puff of wind ruffled Crawford's ducking
jacket against his ribs. He turned in the saddle, staring northward. It was
light enough with dawn now for him to discern the blackening clouds on the
horizon, above the pattern of brush. The breeze whipped through the _brasada_
anew, strong enough now to drown out the incessant hissing which emanated from
Mogotes Serpientes. Mesquite rattled mournfully to the wind. A mule deer broke
from chaparral with a clatter behind the horses, bounding across the river bed
in frightened leaps. The pinto snorted and began fighting the bit, whirling in
the sand. The woman shivered with the sudden chill, calling again, a vague fear
tinging her voice. "What is it?" He could hardly answer. The plunging, rearing
pinto had filled him again with that panic, and he was gripping frantically with
his legs, blood thickening in his throat, choking him up, sweat breaking out on
his face. "Norther." He finally got it out. "Hits like this sometimes in the
spring. Better get to shelter quick as we can. It looks like hell is going to
pop its shutters. Delcazar used to have an old jacal on the Diablo. It's south
of us somewhere along the bottoms. He and I used to hole up there when we were
hunting--"

He was fighting the pinto all the time he shouted, and he could hold it no
longer. Frothing at the mouth from battling the bit, the horse wheeled wildly,
tossing its head, and bolted up the bank of the river. The wind had risen to a
veritable gale already, and the ducking jacket whipped about his torso with a
dull slapping sound as the pinto burst through the first growth of chaparral. A
hackberry rose ahead. Crawford reined the horse aside desperately, sliding off
on one flank to get beneath the branches. He was shaking with panic now, and the
pain was in his tense, quivering legs. "Crawford, Crawford--"

It was Merida's voice behind him. Her animal made a hellish clatter going
through a _mogote_. Then that was drowned in the howl of the rising gale.
Crawford was dimly aware of his own choked sobbing as he fought to stay on the
frenzied pinto and turn it southward toward Delcazar's jacal. His consciousness
of the norther was only secondary to the terrible animal panic in him. The black
clouds had risen like a pyre of smoke over the northern horizon and were
descending on the near brush like an awesome, clutching hand. Already rain was
beginning to pelt the thickets. The howling wind tore a pendent bunch of
mesquite berries off its bush as Crawford raced by, carrying it into his face.
He shouted aloud at it, clawing wildly at the blinding mass. But mostly it was
the horse beneath him. The writhing heat of its frenetic movement beating
against his legs. The dank smell of its wet body sweeping him. The coarse black
hair of its mane whipping into his face. The awful demoralizing consciousness of
its uncontrollable run carrying him along. He could hear his own choked,
incoherent cries. The fear held him in a shaking, writhing vise now. Nopal
clawed his face. A post-oak branch struck his head with stunning force. He clung
to the horse, bawling insanely, no longer trying to rein it, torn off one side
by raking chaparral, beaten at by the trunk of a hackberry, scratched and ripped
by mesquite. "Let go, Crawford." It was Merida, calling shrilly from behind him
somewhere. "Jump, Crawford, please, let go, oh please--"

"No! no!" Had he screamed it? Someone was screaming. His head rocked backward to
a blow. Sensations spun in a kaleidoscope about him. The towering dominance of a
cottonwood reeled around its orbit above him. Mesquite swept into his vision and
out again. Sound and sight and feel became a confused pattern. Red-topped nopal
swam past. The crash of chaparral dinned in his ears. The gnarled curve of a
post oak reeled up and blotted out his vision with a stunning blow in the face.
His own hoarse scream of agony. The drum of hoofs somewhere beneath him. The
shrieking wind. White brush. Green toboso grass. Brown hackberries. Agony in his
legs. The horse whinnying. White brush. Pain. Grass. Screaming. Trees. Shouting.
Blood. Nopal--

"Crawford!" He did not know he had left the horse till he found himself crouched
there in a thicket of mesquite, his face against the wet, earthy smell of
dampened grama grass, making small, incoherent sounds. He seemed in a void, only
dimly aware of sound sweeping around him, his awesome fear the only real thing
to him. It clutched his loins and knotted the muscles across his belly. His legs
were still rigid and trembling with that pain. He was sobbing in a hoarse,
choked way. He heard the creak behind him but didn't know what it was till the
woman's voice came through the haze of primal panic. "Crawford--"

"There. That's it. You've seen it now. All of it. Can we? Hell. How do you like
it? Isn't it pretty?" "You should have jumped." She had dropped to her knees
before him and pulled his face up off the ground. The rain had soaked her
clothes and when she drew his head into her arms he felt the soft, wet contour
of her breast through the damp silk shirt. He was still shaken with that animal
fright, and he had no control over his choked, guttural sobbing, or his words.
"I couldn't jump. It's always like that. I'm so scared I want to puke and the
only thing I want to do is leave the horse and I can't." His voice sounded
muffled against the supple heat of her body. He had never let it out like this
before, and with the panic and pain and fear robbing him of all control, he
heard all the agony and anguish and frustration of the last months flooding from
him in a wild release. He was still crouched on the ground, bent into her lap,
his face against her breast, his fingers clutching spasmodically at the grass on
either side of her. She soothed him like a child, stroking his head. Finally,
the pain began to die in his legs. The knotted muscles across his belly began to
twitch spasmodically, and then relaxed. It was no longer his hoarse, sobbing
words against her body. It was only his labored breathing. The full realization
of what had happened struck him, and he forced his head back in her arms till he
was far enough away to see her face. The flush of a sudden shame swept darkly
into his cheeks. She saw it, and her eyes widened with a tortured compassion.
"No, Crawford, no, please," she said, in a husky voice, and put her palms
against his cheeks and pulled his head to one side. Her position gave weight to
the leverage of her hands, and he found himself lying with his back on the
ground, with his knees twisted beneath him and Merida bending over from her
sitting position. He had thought about it, before, enough times. A man did, with
such a woman. But none of it had equaled this. All the shame was swept away. The
sounds of the storm were blotted out. His whole consciousness was of the
straining tension of her body against him and the moist resilience of her lips
meeting his. Finally she lifted her head, and he could see that her eyes were
closed. She sat that way a moment, without opening them, her blouse caught wetly
across the curving rise and fall of her breast. He lay staring up at her, and it
was not the fear or the pain or the shame any longer in him, or even the passion
which had swept him in that brief, violent moment. Opening her eyes, she must
have seen it in his twisted, wet face. "Crawford," she said in a strained voice.
"Crawford, what is it? What do you want?" _Chapter Eleven_

OLD FRIENDS REUNITED

The Mexicans constructed the roofs of their jacals by laying willow shoots in a
herringbone pattern across the bare vigas which formed the rafters, and then
piling a foot or so of earth atop the shoots. It was this pattern Crawford saw
when he first opened his eyes. Then it was the estufa, built of adobe, in one
corner of the room, with a raised hearth and a cone-shaped opening in front, the
hood rounding from the center to each wall with two mantels terraced back toward
the chimney. It was over this oven that the old man stood. "Delcazar!"
Crawford's voice turned the aged Mexican, a rusty black frying pan still held in
one gnarled fist. His face was seamed like an ancient satchel, and he squinted
with the effort of focusing his rheumy eyes on Crawford. His soiled white cotton
shirt hung slack from stooped, bony shoulders, and the inevitable _chivarras_
were on his skinny legs, glistening with daubs of grease. They gazed at each
other in an uncomfortable silence, and finally Delcazar made a vague movement
with the frying pan. "Hard to know what to say," he mumbled. "After such a long
time, and all that's happened." "Yeah." Crawford put the rotting bayeta blanket
off him, moving his arms and legs tentatively, grimacing with the pain it caused
him. Hail had come after that first downpour of rain, and the white skin of his
shoulders was marked with small purple bruises. He sat up, swinging his legs
off, watching the Mexican. "I remember we had a terrible time in that storm.
Last I recollect is trying to build a fire beneath some coma trees." "That must
have been a long time before I find you," said Delcazar. "I was in my jacal here
when I hear somebody yelling my name. You was carrying Merida across your
shoulder. Both near froze to death. I put you to bed like that time in Austin
when the red-eye got you." He saw how Crawford was looking around the dim room,
and Delcazar grinned hesitantly. "She's out getting water for the coffee." They
were still watching one another that way, waiting, and Crawford waved his hand
around the room. "I didn't think you'd hide out here." Delcazar bent toward him,
squinting. "Hide out? How do you mean?" "A lot of people know about it," said
Crawford. "I should think it would be the first place they'd look." "They?" Then
Delcazar seemed to understand. He pointed at himself with a thumb. "You think--
that I--I--" He halted with a confused grunt, staring at Crawford. "Then--you
didn't?" "Don't you know?" said Crawford. "_Dios_, no," said Delcazar. "How
could I know? Bueno told me how you threaten Rockland after Africano rolled you.
I thought--" he gave a short, rueful laugh--"I guess I even hoped--"

He trailed off, shrugging hopelessly again, and Crawford bent toward him. "Del,
are you trying to tell me you didn't kill Rockland?" "Trying!" The old man
bristled. "Trying to tell you? You doubt my--" He broke off, staring at
Crawford. When he spoke again, it was simply, without vehemence. "No, Crawford.
I didn't. I thought you did. You're on Bible Two. There was a couple of Rangers
in the brush. Torbirio spoke with them. He tell me they had you on the fugitive
list." His face darkened, and he turned away from Crawford, setting the frying
pan down. From one of the terraced shelves he took a grease-soaked paper,
unwrapping it from about the piece of bacon, rubbing the meat sparingly across
the frying pan. "Isn't that the same piece of side meat you had when we were
here last?" said Crawford. Delcazar tried to smile. "Almost, I guess. Some day I
have a hog of my own and we grease the pan with a fresh piece every morning."
"You said you hoped I had killed Rockland," Crawford murmured, watching
Delcazar's back. "Why?" "_Nada_," said Delcazar. "_Nada._"

Crawford's levis had been drying over the fire, and he rose to get them.
"Because if I had done it, the whole thing could have been nothing more than the
quarrel between me and Rockland?" The old man pulled a pot of boiled beans out
and dumped them into the frying pan. "Frijoles _fritos_, Crawford. You always
like them." "But if it wasn't me who did it," said Crawford, pulling on his damp
levis, "there would have to be some other reason for Rockland being murdered.
Santa Anna's chests, for instance." He saw Delcazar's whole body stiffen. The
beans started to hiss as the flames licked at the bottom of the frying pan.
"What do you know, Del?" said Crawford. "_Nada, nada._" The old man turned
around, rising with effort. "I don't know nothing." "Your uncle was the
_capitán_ of that mule train," said Crawford. "My mother tell me that," said
Delcazar. "I never seen him. He died in Mexico City when I was a little _niño_."
"Then why are you so het-up if you don't know anything about it?" "It's
dangerous, Crawford," said Delcazar, catching at his arm. "It's the most
dangerous thing ever hit this brush. You better get out of it while you're still
alive. It's got the whole _brasada_ going now. No telling how many are mixed up
in it now. The Mexican government has an agent up here somewhere." "Huerta?"
"The man at Rockland's?" said Delcazar. "I don't think so." "Huerta was the one
who told me about your uncle," said Crawford. "Funny nobody has come hunting
you. You're a logical link." "They have," said Delcazar. "I wasn't here to greet
them." "Who?" "That ramrod Tarant hired to clean out the brush," said Delcazar.
"Him and his whole _corrida_." "Quartel?" Crawford's eyes narrowed, staring past
Delcazar. "I hadn't thought of him." "You better think of him. You better think
about everybody, Glenn. No telling who's in it, now, and who ain't. No telling
who's going to come up behind you next. I hear they take your Henry away--" He
turned and squatted by the mess of saddle rigging and blankets in the corner,
rummaging around till he came up with a wooden-handled bowie--"Here, it's all I
have. I know it seems silly, but you got to have something. I wish I had a gun.
That old Remington I owned blew up." He stopped again, clutching Crawford's arm.
"Glenn, you ain't going back?" "Why else did you give me the knife?" The old man
let his hand slide off. "I guess so. I know you." He sniffled, rubbing peevishly
at his coffee-colored nose with a calloused index finger. "I guess there ain't
any use trying to keep you from it. They couldn't keep you from it with
Whitehead. What are you after there, Glenn?" _Puntales_ of peeled cedar formed
the doorframe. Crawford hefted the bowie in his hand, flipped it into the cedar
post with a deft twist of his hand. He walked across the room and pulled it
free. "We found Snake Thickets before the norther hit, Del," he said. The old
man grunted. "You're doing it wrong for a short throw like that. Let me show
you." Crawford had been holding the bowie by the tip of its blade and throwing
it from back over his shoulder, allowing it to flip over once in the air before
it struck. Delcazar palmed the heavy knife with the hilt against his wrist and
the blade on his fingers. He threw it from his hip, point foremost. It struck
with a dull thud. Crawford went over to the post. The blade was embedded half an
inch deeper than his throws had sent it in. Standing there in the doorway, he
turned back to the old man, squinting at him. Delcazar sniffled that way again,
rubbing his nose, not meeting Crawford's eyes. "I told you, Glenn, I never even
seen Mogotes Serpientes. If you find it, okay. But I never even seen it. I
thought it was just a story, like Resaca Perdida." "We saw Lost Swamp too," said
Crawford. "Snake Thickets was the most interesting, though. You should have
heard it. Sounded like those beans, only ten times as much. Must be a million
snakes in those _mogotes_." He paced back to Delcazar, palming the knife as the
old man had this time, throwing it with a grunt. With the blade quivering in the
cedar post, he turned part way to the Mexican. "I guess you know what the woman
came from Mexico for. She thinks it's somewhere in Snake Thickets." Delcazar was
shorter than Crawford, and he had to turn his head up to meet the younger man's
eyes. "Listen, Glenn," he said soberly, "I don't know what you're in this for.
I've heard a lot of reasons. Quartel thinks you got a badge tacked on you
somewhere. That might be. A man can get a new job in the time you been away from
the brush. Bueno Bailey said something about trying to clear yourself of
Rockland's murder. That may be, too. If you didn't kill Rockland, maybe the man
who did is at the Big O spread. Personally, I no care whether you killed
Rockland or not or why you're here. I just no want to see you messed up in it,
that's all. I know you before, and I no want to see you messed up in it. Take my
advice as an _amigo_. Forget Mogotes Serpientes. Forget the whole thing. Get out
of it. Get out of it right now." Crawford scratched his beard, squinting into
the old man's eyes thoughtfully. "You know, Del, it just strikes me. Two men can
be friends for a long time, and not really know each other very well." "Ah,
_carajo_," growled Delcazar, shuffling back to hunker over the fire. Crawford
watched him stir the steaming beans. "Is there a way into Snake Thickets, Del?"
"_Nada_," grumbled the old man. "I don't know. I don't know nothing." There was
a muffled sound from outside, and then Merida was standing silhouetted in the
doorway, staring at Crawford. All his weight lay in his chest and shoulders, and
below the line of dark sunburn that covered his face and neck, the skin was pale
and white and so thin as to gleam almost translucently over the musculature
lying quilted across his upper back. He became aware of how long Merida had
gazed at him like that, without speaking, and turned farther toward her. The
myriad striations that formed the heavy roll of muscle capping his shoulders
were clearly defined, and the abrupt movement caused a faint ripple beneath the
skin, like the stir of a sleepy snake. Merida smiled strangely as she entered
with a big clay jug of water. "_Cimarrón_," she said. "What?" he asked.
"_Cimarrón_," she said. "_Ladino._ I never could quite think of what you
reminded me of. Now I know. One of those wild outlaw cattle Quartel brings in
from the brush. Sullen, like them. Bitter. Even built like them. Their weight
all up in their shoulders, running the brush so constantly they melt the beef
off till--"

She stopped short, a strange, indulgent smile catching at her mouth as she saw
the puzzled expression in his face. He turned to pull his shirt off the estufa.
Merida moved after him, till she stood close behind. Delcazar was across the
room, pulling a twist of chili from where he had hung it on a viga. Merida spoke
in a low tone that the old man would not hear. "What was it out there, Glenn?"
"When do you mean?" he said, without turning around. "You know when I mean," she
said. "After I'd kissed you. The way you looked. That expression on your face."
"Nothing," he said stiffly. He couldn't tell her, somehow, if she didn't know.
It just wasn't in him to express his own terrible incapacity again, to her. For
that was what it had been, out there, after the kiss. The bitter, unutterable
realization that no matter how much he wanted her, he was completely unworthy of
such a woman, and could never have her. "It was something," said Merida,
tensely, trying to turn him around, "tell me, Crawford, tell me--"

"Hola, Delcazar!" shouted someone, from outside, halting Merida. The old man
whirled about, dropping the chili. Quartel had come into view, outside, across
the clearing from the doorway, moving into the open from the brush in stiff,
tentative steps, his Chihuahuas tinkling softly. He was leading his own
_trigueño_ and the copperbottom Merida had ridden. Crawford made an abortive
move toward the door, but Delcazar caught him. "_Buenos días_," said Delcazar,
stepping then into view. "I found Merida's horse down in the bottoms," Quartel
told him. "I thought they might--ah, the flash rider himself." He must have seen
them behind Delcazar. Crawford pushed past the old man into the open, and saw
the morning sunlight catch Quartel's white teeth in that pawky grin. The brush
held a torn, rended look after the norther, great holes ripped in the mesquite
thicket behind Quartel, mesquite berries littering the ground. The copperbottom
shifted wearily, rattling its bridle. "How did you find us?" said Crawford. "I
trailed you," said Quartel. "That's some trailing." Quartel shrugged. "Believe
it or not. I don't care. There was someone at the Big O looking for you."
"Yeah?" "_Sí._ I misjudged you, Crawford. Let me apologize for thinking you were
a lawman." Merida made a small strained sound from behind Crawford, and Quartel
grinned at her. "_Sí_, Merida. This man looking for Crawford don't pin it on his
undershirt, either. He has it right out where everybody can see. He's hunting
Crawford all right. He says he's got orders to shoot him on sight." _Chapter
Twelve_

CONQUEROR AND CONQUERED

It was twilight of the same day that Quartel had found them at Delcazar's jacal.
Crawford and Merida had ridden double on the copperbottom back to the Big O,
where Merida had gone up to her room to change, while Crawford washed up in the
kitchen. No one was in evidence when Crawford returned to the living-room for a
drink, feeling exhausted and battered from that night in the storm and the long
ride back. He was no connoisseur, his experience with good liquor limited to the
few times he had drunk Rockland's potables here, and he was at a loss to choose
from the array of glittering bottles and decanters in the sideboard. He sampled
one labeled _curaçao_ and found it too sweet for his taste. Finally he settled
on some armagnac, pouring himself a stiff jolt and moving toward the French
windows. He had meant to sit down in one of the willow chairs, but the strange
silence outside caught his attention. It was unnatural for this time of day.
There was no wind, and the mesquite berries hung in motionless clusters from
drooping trees. Dusk clouded farther thickets, and only the nearest growths took
form. The low mats of chaparral crouched like waiting cats in the gloom. The
warped dead hackberry by the wagon road thrust skeleton arms skyward. It seemed
to be waiting for something too. That oppressive sense of expectancy bore in on
Crawford, and he emptied half the glass at one gulp, squinting his eyes as the
brandy burned his throat. It did not help. Waiting. The sickish sweet scent of
the _lluvia de oro_ twining itself through the lattice of the front porch was so
oppressive in the hot, still air that it nauseated him. Waiting--

The sound of someone rushing down the stairs caused him to turn toward the door.
It was Merida, and he was surprised to see she had not changed from the torn,
dirty leggings she had ridden in. Then he saw the expression on her face.
"Where's Quartel?" she cried. "He went down to the bunkhouse I guess," Crawford
told her, frowning. "What is it?" "He was right." "Who was right?" "Quartel,"
she said, coming across the room in still, tense steps, her eyes fixed to his
face. "Nexpa saw him." "Quartel?" "No," she said. "Crawford, don't you
understand? Nexpa saw him from an upstairs bedroom. He's out in the brush and
he's coming back." It struck him, then, whom she meant, and his fingers
tightened involuntarily around the glass. "The lawman?" She stared at him
without answering, her mouth working faintly. He realized his fingers ached, and
he eased his grip on the glass. "That's crazy, Merida. No badge-packer would
come in here like that. Even Sheriff Kenmare was afraid to follow me this far.
Nexpa must be mistaken." She shook her head, the planes of her face taut and
strained-looking, her eyes glued in that wide, frightened way to his. He made a
small, frustrated motion with the glass, his voice growing hoarse. "She must be,
Merida. No lawman. Not even a Texas Ranger." She shook her head again, emitting
a small, sobbing sound. He bent toward her tensely, his chest moving perceptibly
with the breath passing through it. He was remembering what Delcazar had said.
Bible Two? "It _is_ a Ranger?" Crawford almost whispered. She caught his arm,
the words torn from her. "You've got to get out, Crawford. Before he reaches
here." "Ranger," he muttered, almost to himself, turning to get past her toward
the door. "It can't be--"

"Too much time, Crawford," she said swiftly, blocking him from that direction.
"Can't you understand? He's coming back. You won't even be able to cross the
compound before he's here. You won't even be able to reach the brush. You'll
never make it on foot, Crawford." He stared down at her twisted face. "What are
you saying?" "There's one in the small corral," she said. "Nexpa told me. It's
one of Jacinto's, so it won't be spooky." It took him a moment to comprehend
what she meant, and then it escaped him in a strangled way. "Think I can do it
that way?" "You've got to." She was close to crying now, the tears glistening in
her eyes. "There isn't any other way, Crawford. Can't you understand? You've got
to. Right now. You'll never make it to the brush. It's twice as far as the
corral. You'd be out there in the open, and you'd be a clay pigeon. Your only
chance is the corral." "No!" He tried to break free of her grip on his arm. "I
can't. You know I can't. You saw, out there in the storm, with that pinto." "You
can!" she cried. "You've got to, Crawford, you've got to." He stared down into
her twisted, pale face. Then, with a guttural, inarticulate sound, he whirled to
the French windows, opening one farther, and stepped out onto the porch. He
stood a moment behind the screen of yellow _lluvia de oro_ covering the lattice.
The silence lay across the compound so thick it almost gagged him. Waiting.
There it was again. His shoulders hunched forward, and his whole tense body had
taken on the look of a hunted animal. He stared furtively down the length of the
porch. His shirt was wringing wet with sweat now. "Crawford--"

It came from Merida, standing in the window behind him. Without turning around,
he moved down the steps, his boots making a clatter in the silence. Then he was
moving across the ground in an urgent, shuffling gait, his narrow, dark head
turning ceaselessly from side to side. He realized he was still holding the
glass, and threw it from him with a muffled curse. With every step nearer the
corral, something seemed to be contracting about his heart. He was fighting for
breath, and sweat had turned his beard soggy when he reached the fence. In the
semi-gloom, he could barely make out the shape of the horse. This was the corral
they broke broncs in, built in three sections, the largest section on this side,
with a chute at the other end, and beyond that, a small, tight holding corral
not much bigger than a stall, where they held the animals before putting them
into the chute to be saddled. It had been Otis Rockland's boast that this
smaller section was built so hog-tight and bull-tight it would hold the wildest
bronc that ever double-shuffled. The heavy, reinforced cedar bars were so close
together a man could not crawl between them but had to go through the gate. This
gate itself was built so that it would close automatically, a rawhide rope run
from its frame through a pulley on the overhead structure with a bucket of sand
hanging at its end. Whenever the gate was open the weight of the sand bucket
pulled it closed again, and the drop bar fell automatically into its sockets on
the outside. Crawford stopped at this gate, glancing from one side to another at
the brush. There was a small crackle behind the bunkhouse. With a startled
abruptness, he pulled the rope that hoisted the drop bar from its sockets and
lifted it above the top of the gate, allowing the portal to swing open. The bar
would not drop back into position as long as the gate was ajar. Holding the gate
open, Crawford found a rock large enough to wedge beneath the bottom bar and
keep the sand bucket's weight from pulling the gate closed when he let go. The
horse inside snorted softly. Crawford stiffened by the gate post. Then, his
whole body so tense the muscles ached, he took a forced, jerky step toward the
animal. The horse snorted again, louder. It had been hitched to the corral and,
as Crawford drew near, the animal began tugging at the reins nervously. "Easy,
boy, easy." Crawford tried to make his voice soft and reassuring, but it came
out tight, harsh. "You're going to break your headstall. Easy, you jughead." But
as he drew near, the horse's efforts to get free became wilder. It whinnied
shrilly and reared up. The sound halted Crawford in the middle of the corral,
his whole body a rigid line. The reins pulled free of their half hitch on the
cedar-post bar, and the animal wheeled away from Crawford toward the far corner
of the small corral. Crawford's movements were forced, now, as he moved to catch
the animal in that corner. He bent forward slightly to peer at the lines of the
beast. The darkness revealed only a hazy impression of broad rump and viciously
churning hind legs and a roached mane. The stirrup leathers flapped loosely as
the animal moved down the fence, trapped in the corner now by Crawford's
advance. He was close to it when the horse wheeled with a strangled, screaming
sound and broke toward him in a rush. "No!" It escaped Crawford in a hoarse
shout. He stood there a moment longer, staring at the horse, his whole face
contorted. Then he threw himself to one side, and the animal galloped past. It
saw the partly open gate and was in a dead run by the time it reached that side.
But in its frantic rush, the beast struck the opening partly broadside, rump
crashing against the gate, head slamming into the fence post. The horse reeled
back, screaming in rage, and wheeled to go through headfirst. But the blow of
its body had jarred loose the rock Crawford had wedged beneath the gate, and the
heavy bucket of sand descended with a rush to the ground, slamming the gate shut
before the horse reached it. The drop bar outside fell into its sockets with a
thud, about the same time the charging horse struck the gate once more. The
whole corral shuddered with the impact, but the gate held firm. The dazed horse
staggered away from the fence, making thwarted, guttural sounds of pain.
Crawford realized he was trembling now. Pain swept up his legs, and the muscles
across his belly began to jump and knot. Still dazed, the horse wheeled about
wildly. It caught sight of him again, and all its enraged bestial instincts must
have pinned the cause of its pain on Crawford, for the animal screamed once more
and rushed him. "No," shouted Crawford, again, his voice choked with the
terrible reasonless fear that inundated him. He whirled and leaped to the high
fence, trying to climb it. But he heard the pound of the animal's hoofs behind,
and realized he would never make the top in time, and threw himself off. As he
rolled to the ground, the animal crashed into the fence where he had been a
moment before. Crawford stumbled to his feet, starting in a wild run for the
gate which led into the chute. But he saw before he reached it that it was shut
tight too. He turned to the other gate, his whole consciousness filled with the
sound of the panting, whinnying, snorting animal behind him. At the portal, he
tried to reach through and lift the drop bar from its sockets, but the cedar-
post log was too heavy. He grabbed the gate, heaving at it madly. The horse was
trotting back and forth on the other side of the small corral in a dazed way,
shaking its head, snorting. Crouched weakly on his knees by the gate, trembling
and shuddering, Crawford tried to keep his voice down, hoping he would not
arouse the horse again. "Jacinto," he called. "I'm in the corral. The bar's
dropped on this gate in the corral and I'm trapped inside with Africano.
Jacinto, come and get me out--"

There was no sound from outside. He sagged there, panting, the pain clutching at
him spasmodically, clenching his teeth in a desperate battle against the fear.
"Merida! Can't you hear me? Somebody. Jacinto! Come and let me out. The bar's
dropped and Africano's in here. That killer's in here and I can't get out.
Merida." His voice rose and he began shaking at the gate again. "Someone hear
me! Merida! Jacinto! I'm locked in with that black killer--" He was screaming
now, throwing himself bodily at the door like a frenzied animal--"Damn you, come
and get me out, damn you, Merida, you put that _puro negro_ in here, you knew
I'd be trapped in here with Africano, someone, come and let me out, for God's
sake, Jacinto, let me out, Aforismo, can't you hear me, you can hear me, damn
you, oh, God damn you--"

He stopped, huddled against the door, sobbing uncontrollably, realizing his own
screams had set the black off again. Crawford jumped away as the horse came at
him, stumbling and rolling in the dirt, bawling like a baby, too far gone to
realize clearly what he was doing. He tried to claw up the fence again. But that
pain in his legs and his terrible fear robbed him of much control. His boots
beat a futile tattoo on the bars, seeking the openings in between. His bloody
hands clawed blindly for holds. And the fence was too high for him to reach the
top before the horse crossed the small corral. Over his shoulder he could see
the animal coming. "No! no! no--"

His wild bellow was cut off as the animal spun broadside against him. He heard
his own crushed roar of pain, and he fell off into the dirt, his arms
instinctively going over his head to protect them from flailing hoofs as he
rolled away. The horse was as wild and frenzied as Crawford now. Two beasts
filled the narrow confines of the corral with their crazed screams, forming
shadowy, thundering, pounding, running shapes back and forth between the fences,
the whole structure shuddering as one or the other smashed into the sides.
Crawford did not try again to climb the fence. Hands bloody, clothes covered
with dirt, shirt torn, all his wild concentration was on avoiding the mad, blind
rushes of the killer horse. He found himself backed up against the door leading
into the chute, facing the charging horse. He threw himself bodily aside, and
the animal crashed into the door. Panels cracked and splintered, and corral
posts groaned with the strain. The _puro negro_ stumbled back, blood streaming
from its head, eyes showing their whites in the gathering darkness, foam
dripping from its jaw. Crawford had rolled across the short space to the side
fence. And crouching there now, watching the horse wheeling and circling,
seeking him, a terrible blinding anger swept him, blotting out for a moment the
awful fear and pain. They thought they could do this to him? They thought they
could lock him in a stall with a killer? The hell--

He dove aside again as the horse rushed, feeling no pain in his legs as he
landed, feeling no panic, feeling only that utter rage, scalding, vitriolic,
cleansing. "You think you can do this to me?" he found himself shouting.
"Merida? You think you can lock me in here like this? Damn you, Merida!" He
moved in front of the door to the chute, yelling crazily at the animal. "Come
on, Africano, here I am, you bastard, here I am, come on, see me, damn you, come
on--"

Dirt spurted beneath the churning hoofs as the horse charged and reared above
the man. Crawford waited till the last moment, jumped aside. Panels cracked and
split again as twelve hundred pounds of horseflesh crashed against the gate. The
horse staggered off, whirled back to Crawford. Gasping, Crawford pawed sweat
from his eyes, dodged aside. The _puro negro_ caught itself before plunging into
the fence there, whirling on one hind foot and changing its lead in mid-air to
rush Crawford again with a frenzied scream. He put himself in front of the chute
door again. Once more it was the horse's wild scream and the leap aside and the
maddened animal shaking the whole corral as it crashed into the door. Another
panel cracked, and hinges creaked, and the door sagged outward. Blood covering
its head, the black whirled and came at Crawford sideways. It didn't give him
enough room on either side, and the black's shoulder caught him as he tried to
jump away from the rear fence. He went down, rolling up against the side with a
force that stunned him. The horse had smashed into the rear fence, and it backed
away, shaking its head. Sensing Crawford at its side, the animal turned,
shifting its weight to kick. Crawford saw the movement and knew what it meant,
and not even hearing his own shout, he clawed up the fence and threw himself
directly at the horse's rump. His weight struck the black hocks, and, without
leverage, all the kick did was throw him bodily back against the cedar logs.
With almost human cunning, Africano jumped forward to clear the space between
them so it could catch Crawford with the full force of its kick. He rolled under
the hoofs as they lashed out. One of them caught his shoulder and he screamed in
agony. Then he was up against the door again. He didn't know how many more times
he drew the black into that door before the portal collapsed. It was all a wild
haze of choking dirt and soggy sweat and salty blood and lashing hoofs. Time and
time again he waited there at the gate till the last moment, and then jumped
free, allowing the horse to batter on into it. And finally, with the whole
corral shuddering with the impact, the black crashed through the portal, tearing
its lower half clear out and carrying the upper portion of the gate about its
head and neck as it stumbled on into the chute. The opposite door to the chute
had been left open, and the horse went on through into the larger corral. Pawing
blood and sweat off his face, drawing in a great gulp of air, Crawford staggered
out after the animal. It was logical that Merida should have taken this long to
hear the racket from the house, but the men from the bunkhouse should have
reached the corrals long ago. Jacinto was at the fence with Merida, and Quartel
was coming up in his hard-heeled run, followed by Aforismo and the others.
"Crawford," cried Jacinto, "get out between the bars! You can do it now. While
Africano's still fighting the door. Are you loco? He's a killer. He'll run you
down. You can get away now." "No," gasped Crawford, "no," and ran on toward the
horse where it had dragged the chute door clear out into the middle of the
corral. He wasn't finished yet. He knew he had to do it now or never, while the
anger still blotted out his fear. He worked the _puro negro_ into a corner and
got close enough to jerk the shattered door off its neck. The horse tried to
break away, but Crawford threw himself in front of it, getting the frenzied,
lathered animal back against the fence. One of the hands was belatedly climbing
the fence with a rope. Crawford did not wait; he moved in toward the horse.
Screaming like a woman, Africano charged straight at him. There hadn't been
enough room between them for the beast to gain much momentum, however. Crawford
met it almost head-on, throwing himself partly aside only at the last moment,
grabbing the roached mane with one hand and hooking his other arm around beneath
the neck and letting the horse's shoulder slam into his hip, throwing him up and
over. "Crawford," he heard Jacinto scream, "oh, you fool, Crawford." He didn't
hear any more, then, except the horse's wild, frenzied sounds and the horse's
drumming hoofs. He didn't see any more except the black devil beneath him, doing
everything within the scope of its vicious cunning to get him off. It bucked,
and he took every jarring drop screaming triumphantly at the agony it caused
him. It rolled, and instead of stepping clear off and waiting till the horse
came up again, he rode its belly around, eyes open wide, dodging the death in
its flailing legs. There was an insane frustration in the black's eyes as it
came onto its feet again and found the man had never left it. The horse rolled
again, directing its kicks this time. Still Crawford was on when it came up. He
rolled it from one side of the corral to the other, until it had enough of that,
and began going over backward. A man stepping off then would have ultimately
lost his touch with the horse too. But Crawford rode its neck when it twisted
onto its hips and rode its head when it put its rump into the ground and rode
its belly while it was upside down. The horse rose into a veritable orgasm of
mad bucking, pin-wheeling, sunfishing, humping up and coming down with all four
feet planted, and knocking most of the consciousness from Crawford every time it
landed. Crawford was bleeding at the nose and ears, face covered with blood and
sweat, clothes black with dirt. His whole world was one of shocking, jarring
pain and a grim, terrible concentration on finishing this. The horse began
rolling again, trying desperately to get the man under its black body, and
Crawford went with it, crying openly now, pawing blindly for holds, head rocking
as a hoof caught him, lying over the animal's back with his nose streaming blood
on its dirty hide. Finally he felt the animal come to a stop beneath him, legs
trembling, barrel heaving, lather dripping off it white as snow. Crawford
slumped over, hearing his own sobbing, not knowing whether the wet on his face
was sweat or blood or both. He waited for the animal to gather itself again. It
didn't. Finally Crawford slid off and his legs collapsed beneath him; he grabbed
the horse's cannon bone and pulled himself to his knees, then the mane and
pulled himself erect. He bent over and was sick. Choking weakly, he saw them
coming from the corral. "Get away, stay away. I'm taking this horse back in. You
wanted him for cow work? You got him." Merida swam into his vision, and he spat
out blood and teeth before he could speak again. "And maybe you don't know it,
Merida, but you did me a big favor. Yeah. A _big_ favor." _Chapter Thirteen_

VIOLENCE IN THE BUNKHOUSE

The morning sun had not yet warmed the mud walls of the bunkshack through, and
the dank reek of adobe filled the dog-run as Crawford passed down its narrow
corridor toward the kitchen, still limping with the pain of his ride on Africano
the evening before. Coming from the run, he almost knocked over Jacinto, who had
been sitting propped against the wall on a three-legged stool, his head bent
forward on his fat chest. "What are you doing?" said Crawford. The huge cook had
barely caught himself from falling, and he blinked sleepy eyes up at Crawford in
surprise. "Sitting on a stool." "You been sitting there all night," Crawford
accused him. Jacinto looked sheepishly at the prodigious butcher knife across
his lap. "No--I--I just--" He waved the blade suddenly at the room. "Well, why
not, you been sleeping up at the big house, and now you come down here, and
after all that about Whitehead, and everything else, _sacramento_, how is a man
to know what might happen--"

Crawford gazed at him soberly. "_Gracias, amigo_," he said. Jacinto grinned in
embarrassment, turning to shuffle toward the stove. He put the knife down with a
clatter and got the big coffeepot to fill it with water at the butt. When he had
it on to boil, he took three clay bowls off a shelf and put them on the table.
Seating himself at a bench before the bowls, he spoke again. "You feel all right
this morning?" Crawford was standing in the doorway, staring emptily toward the
house. "No," he said. "Beaten to a pulp." "I'll fix you some Romero steak," said
Jacinto. From the dull red clay bowl he fumbled a grain of corn, carefully
picking out the black base with his teeth and spitting it into a second, a blue
bowl, dropping the remainder of the kernel into the third, a yellow container.
He gave Crawford a sidelong glance. "You told Merida she did you a favor last
night. How did you mean?" "Never mind," said Crawford. Jacinto plucked another
grain from the red bowl, picking out the base with his teeth. "You think she put
Africano in there?" "What else?" said Crawford. "Did you see any Rangers
around?" "No," said Jacinto, frowning at him. "Neither did anybody else," said
Crawford. "There weren't any." Jacinto took out another grain of corn, waving it
at Crawford. "You mean you thought you was running from a Ranger?" Crawford
turned away impatiently, pacing toward the door. "That's what she told me."
"_Por supuesto_," said Jacinto. "Why should Merida do such a thing?" "Good way
to get rid of me as any," said Crawford bitterly. Jacinto studied him a moment,
smiling in a hesitant, puzzled way. Then he tipped the yellow bowl so Crawford
could see it was full of pale corn kernels. "Now I have _tortillas_ white as the
sand in Arroyo Blanco." Grunting, he bent forward to pull the metate nearer his
bench, a large oblong block of pumice stone, hollowed out in the upper surface
from countless grindings with the pumice rolling pin they called a mano. He
poured the hollowed portion full of the corn kernels. "Why should she want to
get rid of you?" he said, without looking up. "I guess she had a good reason,"
said Crawford. Jacinto took up the mano, began to grind the corn, the hulls
working to the edge of the metate like scum along the edge of a water hole.
"That day of the bull-tailing, when you and Merida went out into the brush. You
found what you wanted?" "Let's not talk about it," said Crawford. "And maybe you
and her was the only ones who knew where it was, then, no?" said Jacinto. With
the edge of his fat hand, he shoved the collection of hulls off into the blue
bowl, which contained the black bases he had spit out. "You think that's why she
did it?" Crawford's head jerked from side to side. When he spoke, the
frustration was evident in his voice. "How do I know? How do I know anything?
Sure we found what we were looking for. You know what it was. Everybody knows.
Why do you all keep beating around the thicket this way? Mogotes Serpientes. You
know that. Maybe she and I are the only ones who know how to get there. And if I
was out of the way, she would be the only one to know. It's what she came up
here in the first place for, isn't it? She didn't even try to deny she put that
killer horse in there. It's the best reason I can think of." Jacinto poured a
little water into the corn left on the metate, began grinding it again with the
mano. "Is it?" Crawford turned sharply from the door. "What do you mean?" The
paste of corn meal and water Jacinto now had was called masa. He began to pat it
into thin _tortillas_. The _comal_, heating over an open fire, was a large plate
upon which he cast the _tortillas_ to bake, without salt, leavening, or grease.
"I am not too astute in affairs of the heart," said the cook, drawing a heavy
breath and wiping sweat off his fat face, "but I have had a few, and have drawn
some conclusions about women from them, which I think are as accurate as any
conclusions about women can be. They will do strange things when they are in
love, Crawford, often cruel things, or brutal. Love to them, when they are
enmeshed within it, is all of life, is their whole existence. They will fight
for it with their last breath. They will go to any extreme for it. Merida is no
ordinary woman. You have seen her fire. You know her depths." "You're riding a
pretty muddy creek," said Crawford. "I'll clear the water," said Jacinto. "Just
give me time. Merida came to you for help, didn't she?" "You might call it
that." "All right. But she knew you could never be much help in the state you
were in. You told me she tried to aid you in conquering it that day you left the
bull-tailing." "So what. Huerta acted like he wanted to help me once too. It was
only part of the game he was playing." "_Lástima de Dios_," cried Jacinto,
clapping fat hands to his brow. "Pity of God. Now I know you must be as loco
about Merida as she is about you. Only a man in love could be that blind. Can't
you see what she did? That day you and she rode into the _brasada_ must have
made Merida realize, finally, that the only way you could conquer your fear was
to ride Africano again. And she wanted to see you conquer your fear, Crawford.
More than anything else. More, even, than finding what she came up here for.
More, even, than having you live. She didn't want a half-man. She didn't want a
coward. She wanted _you_, the way you used to be, the way she knew you must have
been whenever those little flashes of your old self would show themselves."
Crawford had turned around, staring at Jacinto, now. It was beginning to grow in
him. The first dim realization of it. An understanding he couldn't name, yet. It
prickled the hair on the back of his neck. "Yes." Jacinto could see the strange
wonder in his eyes. "You are beginning to see, no? It took you long enough.
There are not many women with that kind of gravel in their craw. Not many women
could have done it that way." It was starting to blossom in Crawford now, a
strange, dim exaltation. "Do you realize what it did to me? To come out on the
porch that morning and see you standing there beside Whitehead's body, knowing
what it meant?" Suddenly he knew how she must have felt. "It doesn't happen to a
person often in her life." Suddenly he knew what she had been talking about.
"That sort of feeling." That sort of feeling. He looked around at Jacinto, his
eyes wide. "_Sí_," said Jacinto. "You understand now. It would take a lot of man
to accept it, Crawford, even when he understood. It would take _her_ kind of
man. Admittedly she took a big chance on killing you. Maybe she'd rather have
you dead than a coward. That's the kind she is. Not many men could take her. Not
many men could realize she sent them out deliberately that way, and still take
her." "Hyacinth," Crawford said almost inaudibly, "Hyacinth--"

"_Sí, sí._" The gross cook began to chuckle excitedly, for he must have seen
what was in Crawford. "You better go to her now, Crawford, before it's too late.
She thinks you're through with her, after what you told her last night. She
thinks you're not enough of a man to take it that way. But you just didn't
understand. Now you do. Go on, Crawford. You won't get a woman with that kind of
guts twice in your life. It's almost as good as owning a vinegar roan. I owned a
vinegar roan once--"

But Crawford had stopped hearing the cook. It held him completely now. It lifted
him so high he didn't feel his feet hit the floor when he started to walk. He
moved past Jacinto with a dazed, twisted expression on his face, not even seeing
the fat Mexican. The only thing within his awareness was that sweeping, tingling
sense of exaltation, so strong and poignant it approached a nausea. The kitchen
door faced away from the house, and it was more direct to go through the dog-run
and out the bunkhouse; he must have gone that way unconsciously, not remembering
his passage through the covered run. "Where you going?" It penetrated only
dully. He kept on walking. Then somebody was in front of him. "I said where you
going?" Innes! The singular odor of sweaty leather reached Crawford from the
red-bearded man's buckskin ducking jacket. "The house," he said, trying to get
around the man. Ford Innes shifted again, and this time Crawford was brought up
against the man's body. It was like walking into an oak tree. "Not right now,"
said Innes. It was the other things, then, brought in with a clarity almost
painful. Bueno Bailey. Sitting at the table. Filing the sear on the trigger of
his gun. Aforismo. Sitting on the upper bunk to Crawford's right. His legs
dangling over the sideboard. "Did you ever see the _dichos_ on my belduque?" he
asked, seriously. "I like the one on this side best. _Tripe is sweet but bowels
are better._ Don't you like that one best?" The contraction of Crawford's
muscles began with his calves. They twitched faintly, stiffening up, and the
tightening ran up the inside of his legs and pervaded his belly and crossed his
chest. His whole body was taut as he took the step back away from contact with
Innes. "That's it," said the red-bearded man. Bueno's gun was an old 1848
percussion Dragoon, converted to handle cartridges. Rubbing his finger
delicately across the sear, Bailey nodded his head approvingly. "_Bueno_," he
said. "I'll bet the pull isn't more than half a pound on that now." "Where is
Quartel?" asked Crawford. "If you don't blow your foot off, you'll blow your
head off," Innes told Bailey. "I never heard of anybody filing a hair trigger
down below a pound." "Where is Quartel?" Tongue between his teeth, Bailey
slipped the mainspring into the butt of his Dragoon, tightening the strain screw
against it carefully. "You don't think that's too much of a hair trigger, do
you? I knew a Mexican up in San Antonio that used to carry an old Remington
filed down to a quarter-pound pull." "All right," said Crawford, through his
teeth. "I am going up to the house, Innes. Will you get out of my way?" "That
Mex would still be alive if he didn't have the cussed habit of jumping off his
horse when it stopped," said Bueno Bailey, slipping the trigger down through the
frame and screwing the trigger stud into its proper hole. "But I don't jump off
my nag. I get off real easy all the time." "Please, Innes." It was Jacinto's
voice, from behind Crawford. "Let him through this time. It ain't the same as
before. Please. It's different. _He's_ different. Don't you know? _En el nombre
de mi madre._ Can't you see--"

"This _bravo's_ pretty good," said Aforismo, swinging his legs. "_Nothing
compares with my kiss._ But I guess I like the other _dicho_ better. Which do
you like best, Crawford?" "Oh, _Dios_." Jacinto's voice was quavering now.
"Please, Innes. I hate violence so. Let him go. I was not born for such as this.
Wassail and song, Innes. Can't we all have wassail and song--"

"_Bueno_," said Bailey, as he finished tightening the hammer stud and started
putting on the metal side plates. "_Compañeros_, can't you hear me? Wassail and
song. No violence. Oh, _carajo_--"

"I'll ask you once more." Crawford's voice was flat. "Get out of my way."
"You're not going any place," said Innes, pulling his buckskin jacket up off the
handle of his own gun. "Why don't you sit down?" "Yeah." Bailey had the walnut
grips screwed on. He reached for the barrel, fitting it in place. "Why don't you
sit down?" Crawford stooped over to grab the hilt of Delcazar's bowie in his
boot and lunged forward at the same time. He struck Ford Innes doubled over. The
red-bearded man expelled his air in a gasp and went down. Crawford let himself
go with Innes, rolling off the man as they struck. He came face up with the
knife in his hand. It happened so fast that Aforismo only had time to pull his
belduque back for the throw. Crawford's position prevented an over-the-shoulder
throw such as Aforismo's. "All right, Del," he grunted, and heaved the bowie
from his hip, point foremost, while he was still in the act of rolling off
Innes. "_Chingado!_" he heard Aforismo scream. Bailey's body blocked the view in
that same moment. Crawford did not see the blow coming. He shouted hoarsely with
the pain of Bueno's Dragoon barrel slashing across his head. Stunned, the most
he could do was let his knee fly up. It caught Bailey in the crotch. The man's
explosive grunt held a sick agony. Crawford was still sprawled partly across
Innes, the redheaded man had been striving to free his gun without wasting time
trying to get from beneath Crawford. He had it out now and was twisting to bring
it in line. Blinded by Bailey's blow, Crawford squirmed around, launching a wild
kick at Innes. It caught the redhead's fist as he pulled the trigger, knocking
the gun up. The Remington's boom filled the room, and the slug knocked a rain of
the whitewash they called _yeso_ off the ceiling. "_Lástima de Dios!_"
Aforismo's voice came from somewhere after the shot, "come and pull it out, you
_chile_, come and get it out--"

Crawford struggled to his feet, striving to jerk free o£ Bailey. But the man had
him about the waist, head buried against Crawford's belly, hair hanging in
greasy yellow streamers, groaning with the pain of that knee Crawford had given
him in the groin. Innes still had his Remington. He gripped it with his left
hand too, now, rolling back with the weapon in both fists to line it up on
Crawford. Struggling with Bailey, Crawford could do only one thing. He threw the
weight of his whole body toward Innes. Bailey tried to jerk him back, but not
soon enough. Before Innes got that Remington turned in the right direction,
Crawford was close enough to lift his leg above the man's face. He saw Innes's
eyes open wide with the realization. Then he felt flesh and bone crunch beneath
his stamping boot. Lifting his leg robbed Crawford of his balance, and he fell
backward with Bailey's next lunging jerk. They struck the wall so hard the whole
building shook, and another rain of _yeso_ spattered down over them. "_Cristo_,
will somebody take it out? Oh, please, somebody come and take it out--"

Bailey rose up, straddling Crawford. Before the man could strike, Crawford
doubled in beneath him and got his legs twisted around so he could heave. Bailey
went back with a cry, stumbling into the bench. The plank splintered beneath his
body, and the bench collapsed with him. Innes was getting to his feet, hoarse,
desperate sobs rending him. He pawed blindly at his mutilated face with his free
hand, blinking his eyes as he tried to find Crawford. He must have caught
Crawford's movement against the wall. He whirled that way with the Remington
coming up. Crawford jumped toward him, catching the gun in both hands. Still
unable to see, Innes clung desperately to the six-shooter. When Crawford yanked
the gun around, it pulled Innes too, swinging him against the wall. Unable to
tear the Remington free, Crawford let go with one hand and lurched in close to
sink his right fist deep into Innes's square belly. "That for your three-
quarter-pound pull, you _pordiosero_," shouted somebody from behind Crawford,
"that for your bacon grease--"

Innes sagged against the wall with a pitiful sob, still trying to pull the gun
against Crawford. Crawford brought that fist in again. "Oh, _madre, madre_,
please come and get it out--"

"That for your hair trigger, you _lépero_, I hope it gives you _corajes_, I hope
it gives you worse than fits of the spleen--"

Innes was slumped halfway down the wall now, still making those horrible sobbing
sounds as he refused to give up. Crawford shoved the gun clear back against the
adobe, and hit him again. The redheaded man slid completely to the floor,
dropping the Remington. Crawford whirled around, wondering why Bueno had not
come back in. Then he saw who had been yelling. Bueno Bailey was huddled in a
corner, and standing over him, beating at him with the broken end of the bench,
was the fat cook. "That for your bacon grease, you _rumbero_," squealed Jacinto,
and the bench made a crunching sound striking Bueno, "that for your--"

Crawford leaped across the room and grabbed the bench before Jacinto could
strike again. The huge Mexican fought him crazily, trying to tear loose and get
back at Bueno. "Just one more, Crawford, please, just one more. He deserves it.
Did you see what they were trying to do with you? _Barba del diablo_, just one
more. Look at the scabby _pordiosero_--"

"Who was it didn't like violence?" shouted Crawford. Jacinto stopped abruptly,
looking at Bailey, crouching dazedly against the wall. He stared around at the
carnage of the room, the smashed table, Innes sprawled out against the wall
clutching his face. "_A fe mía_," he said in a hollow voice. "Upon my word. It
looks like they turned a _toro_ loose." Then his popping eyes came back to
Bailey. "I did--that--" he waved an incredulous hand at the man. "No, Crawford,
tell me I didn't." Jacinto turned around to clutch at him. "_Violencia._
_Caramba_, I couldn't, not me, not little Hyacinth of the River. My father would
be desecrated. Please, tell me I didn't do it--"

"_Dios_, somebody, come and pull it out, damn you, Crawford, somebody, you
_chingados_, come and help me, come and get this _cuchillo_, damn you--"

It was Aforismo's voice, breaking in on Jacinto's plea. Jacinto turned toward
the man, where he still sat up in the bunk. Aforismo must still have had his
right hand held back over one shoulder to throw his belduque when Crawford's
knife struck him, for the bowie was up to its hilt through his palm, pinning the
hand to the adobe wall. With the inconsistency of a child, the tortured look
left Jacinto's sweating face, and he began to chuckle. "Look at him. Aphorisms?
Hah! What good are they now? _Proverbios._ Why don't you give us a saying now,
Aforismo?" He had begun to drag the table toward the bunk. "_Dichos?_ What right
have you got to _dichos_? Tripe is sweet? Hah! How does that belduque know?"
With a great effort he had managed to climb on the table and bend over the bunk
to grab the hilt of Crawford's bowie. "_Nothing compares with my kiss._ That
makes me laugh. That belduque never kissed anything but the inside of your
belt--"

"_Madre_," howled Aforismo, "take it easy, will you?" Jacinto tugged more
violently in his effort to pull the knife from Aforismo's hand. "_Dios_,
Crawford, how did you throw it so hard? No wonder he couldn't get it out. I'll
bet it goes clear through the wall into--Crawford, where you going?" He was
almost out the door, and he threw it over his shoulder. "To the house." Crawford
ran all the way across the compound and up the steps and through the close,
suffocating heat of the entrance hall, glancing through the door of the living-
room. "Merida?" The echo of his voice held a frightening ring, farther down the
hall. "Merida?" he called again, and whirled to take the stairway up, knocking
off a mahogany riser with his boot heel, leaping the whole elliptical landing
where the stairway turned, halfway up. It was recognizable, now, a woman's
sobbing, coming from Merida's bedroom. This door was open, too, and he stumbled
in. Nexpa was crouched at the foot of the bed with her face in her hands. He
grabbed her shoulders, pulling her upward. "_Dónde esta Merida?_" he shouted.
The maid turned a face up to him so dark it looked negroid, her eyes wide and
terrified. "_No sabe, no sabe_," she gasped. "What have they done to her?" he
cried hoarsely, shaking Nexpa. "You know. Where is she? Did they take her? What
happened?" "_No sabe_," sobbed the maid again. "_Huerta, Huerta_--"

"Huerta took her," shouted Crawford. "What are you talking about? Where? _Dónde,
dónde?_"

"_En su cuarto. Merida eo puso alli, en su cuarto!_"

"My room?" he said, and dropped her roughly against the footboard and wheeled to
run down the hall to the chamber he had occupied, tearing open the door. The
reeded mahogany posts supporting the bare tester frame formed a skeleton pattern
in the gloom. "Merida?" he called. He could not see enough in the semidarkness,
and he ran to the windows, yanking the heavy overdrapes of dark blue velure away
from the window. Noon sunlight flooded the room, turned the damask covering on
the wing chair to a gleaming china blue, caught brazenly on the brass fixtures
of the Franklin stove in the small fireplace. Then, blinking his eyes, Crawford
saw it, and realized what the maid had meant. "In your room. Merida put it
there." On the chintz coverlet of the bed lay his rifle. _Chapter Fourteen_

CHALLENGING SNAKE THICKETS

No longer did it wait. No longer did it crouch in passive, latent malignance.
Now the evil coma unsheathed its thorns, like a knife-thrower drawing his dirks
for the first time. Now the adder-toothed retama struck from beneath the
disguise of yellow flowers which had caused the Mexicans to call it flower of
gold. Now the deadly Spanish dagger of the devil's head thrust and parried and
lunged like a savage fencer. Ever since Crawford had returned to the Big O, the
_brasada_ had filled him with a strange, inexplicable sense of biding its time,
crouched out there, surrounding them with its sinister, purring, waiting
destruction. And now, as if this was what it had anticipated, it seemed to leap
forth in all its deadly, ruthless malevolence, like a beast unleashed. Never
before had it fought him so, blocking his way impenetrably, cutting and stabbing
and striking every foot of the way. And Crawford met its challenge, taking a
wild, savage delight in pitting all his skill and strength and experience
against the _brasada's_ violent, cunning, malicious virulence. And he had a
horse! Knowing it would take something more than an ordinary brush horse to
catch Huerta, he had chosen Africano. It had not been broken to the spade bit
yet, but would work with a hackamore, and the fact that they had first captured
it in the _brasada_ indicated a life of running the thickets, which would make
it a good brush horse even without training. Just how good, Crawford realized
the first thicket they traversed. The _puro negro_ met the brush with a
fearless, consummate skill, something uncanny about the way it could sense
whether the _mogotes_ were actually impenetrable or whether they held a weak
spot which could be run through. It found holes in thickets Crawford would never
have guessed were there, running headlong through the most dense ramaderos
without a moment's hesitation. The kind of a horse a brush-popper dreamed about.
It was a constant battle, and Crawford fought it with the wild abandon peculiar
to the _brasadero_ when he was riding the brush like this, shouting at the horse
and himself and anything else that wanted to listen, and cursing in two
languages at every stabbing, clawing thicket which tried to drag him off. And
the names passed by, as they had before. Silver Persimmons. Turtle Sink. Rio
Diablo. Chapotes Platas. He had tried to follow Huerta's trail for a while, but
when he had seen the undeviating direction it was taking he had quit tracking
and had let the black out. Finally he came crashing through the fringe of
chaparral into the clearing above Rio Diablo and swung down off the lathered,
heaving horse, and ran toward the jacal. A man was trying to crawl across the
threshold of the doorway. "Crawford," he groaned. "I knew it was you. I heard
you coming ten miles off. There never was anybody could match you cussing the
brush. I guess that's 'cause there never was anybody loved it the way you do."
He tried to rise abruptly, his eyes opening in a glazed way as he stared past
Crawford. "_Dios_, Africano!" Crawford had reached him by then. "What happened,
Del? They did this to you?" Dried blood darkened the old man's face, and the
soles of his bare feet had a red, blistered look. "You got a hackamore on it,"
said Delcazar vacantly, still staring at the black. "You can't ride that killer
with a hackamore. You're loco--"

"Who did it? Tell me who did it!" almost shouted Crawford. "Merida--"

"She did this!" "No, no," gasped Delcazar weakly. "Merida come first. She say
she needed help. Say you weren't with her any more for some reason. Had an idea
I knew about Snake Thickets. While she was still here, Huerta came. Followed
her, I guess. He thought I knew about Snake Thickets too. Those cigarettes of
Huerta's. I'm a _viejo_, an old man. I couldn't stand much. The woman try to
stop him. She couldn't do it." "How do you get in, Delcazar?" Crawford's voice
shook with its low intensity. Delcazar's eyes widened. "Crawford, you ain't
going to try and follow them. It's suicide. Even if you know how to get in.
Those _serpientes_. You been there. You heard them. Please, you and I been
_amigos_ too long. Let those fools kill themselves after a chest of pesos. Who
wants pesos--"

"How do you get in?" Crawford's voice held a shrill, driven stridor that
stiffened Delcazar. The old man stared at him a moment, mouth open slightly.
Maybe it was the pale, set look to Crawford's face. "Rio Diablo. You know how it
goes underground about a mile above here. Nobody's ever been able to find where
it comes up again. It comes from the Nueces past here and then drops out of
sight and there ain't nothing left but the dry bed going on south to Mogotes
Serpientes. I'll tell you where it does come up again. Right inside Snake
Thickets. That's why nobody ever found it. You know how water in a place like
Turtle Sink dries up during the day. Then, come night, it rises to the surface
again. That's what happens inside Mogotes Serpientes. During the day, the part
of Rio Diablo that surfaces inside the thickets is all dried up. Then when
evening sets in, it comes up again. That's how you get in. You got to run a
short stretch of the thicket before you reach water. That's why you have to time
it right. The snakes sleep during the day, and start to stir around at sundown.
That's about the same time the water starts rising. If you start in just a few
minutes before the sun sets, you can run that stretch of thicket between the
outside and the water while the snakes are still asleep. Naturally you'll wake
them, but you got a bigger chance of reaching the water than if they were
already wide-awake and waiting for you. Once you're in the bog, you're safe. The
snakes will come down to drink, but rattlers like dry land too much to go
swimming in that muck. Time it wrong by one minute either way and you're done.
If you go in too early and the water ain't risen yet, you're setting right in
the middle of a million rattlers. And if you go in too late and the snakes are
stirring around, they'll probably get you before you reach water. I found it out
from an old Comanche a long time ago, Crawford. I was afraid to tell. I was
afraid to go in myself and I was afraid somebody would make me show them the way
if I tell, and I couldn't do that, Crawford, nobody could. It's suicide. Maybe
those Mexicans do it once, with the chests. It couldn't be done again in a
million years." "Still got those cavalry boots?" "Crawford, please, you ain't
going to--"

"I'll want your batwings too." Delcazar began to cry without sound, and the
words came between his lips with a resigned audibility. "In the jacal. Under my
bunk." Crawford stepped past the man, the decision hard and crystallized in him
now, permitting no other considerations. He hauled out the old pair of jack
boots someone in Delcazar's family had worn with Diaz, and unhooked a tattered
pair of batwing chaps from the bunk post, a rarity in this border section where
most men preferred _chivarras_. He pulled the ancient Chimayo from the bunk and
began cutting it in strips with the bowie. Then he wound the strips about his
legs like puttees, up to his crotch, till they formed three or four layers; he
had trouble pulling the jack boots on over this thickness. "_Pechero?_" he said,
swiftly buckling the bull-hide chaps on. Delcazar was huddled against the
doorframe, watching him hopelessly. "Had one somewhere. Maybe under the bunk
too." The _pechero_ was a buckskin shield used by the _brasaderos_ for popping
the heaviest brush; it fitted around the front of the horse's chest, tying over
its withers and behind its front legs. The black was too weary for any objection
as Crawford lashed the _pechero_ on. "Gloves," Delcazar was motioning vaguely
toward the fireplace, "gloves--"

They were on one of the shelves above the estufa, thick buckskin gloves with
flaps as long as the forearm. Crawford pulled them on his hands and stepped past
the old man. He stopped there a moment, staring down at Delcazar. His mouth
twisted open as if he would speak. No words came. A torn look crossed his face
momentarily. Then he turned and swung aboard the black and jerked the hackamore
against its neck and the animal wheeled and broke into a gallop down toward the
brush lining the river--

The sun was low and he forced the flagging _puro negro_ down Rio Diablo until
the water ceased and they were running the dry bed. The mesquite became thicker
in the bottom lands, interspersed by cottonwoods turning sear with the heat of
oncoming summer. Finally the _pechero_ was rattling and scraping constantly
against the brush as Crawford forced his way through. He was riding at a walk
now, head cocked to listen, eyes roving the terrain restlessly, whole body tense
with waiting for the first sign that he had reached Mogotes Serpientes. The sun
was almost down now, and he was filled with a growing, trembling sense of
urgency. Maybe it was the incessant clash of brush against the buckskin shield
which hid the other sound at first. Suddenly he pulled the black to a halt. It
came from ahead of him, a faint, barely perceptible hissing sound. He sat there
a moment, letting the thought of Merida in there harden the resolve within
himself till it was so sharp and clear it hurt. The black had begun fretting at
the sound, and Crawford pulled in the _mecate_ on the hackamore, bending
forward. "All right," he said, "we're going through!" Perhaps it was the tone of
his voice. The horse ceased all movement abruptly, stiffening beneath him. Then
the man flapped his legs out wide and brought his spurs in against the sweating
black flanks with a hoarse shout. The _puro negro_ leaped forward like a
startled buck, breaking into a headlong gallop straight into the brush
thickening in the river bottom ahead of them. Crawford rode as if he were
bareback, gripping the animal from his thighs down, heels turned in hard against
the horse. They crashed headlong through the first thicket of mesquite, Crawford
bent forward with his free arm thrown in front of his face, the branches ripping
at his cheeks and tearing his levi ducking jacket half off his back. A post oak
loomed before them as they tore free of the mesquite. He reined the black
viciously to one side and the animal reacted with a violence that would have
unseated Crawford but for that grip of his legs, wheeling so sharply the man's
torso was snapped to one side like the flirt of a rope. Crawford jerked himself
back in time to bend down off one side as they passed beneath the branches. Then
they were racing at a thicket of chaparral and huisache entwined together so
thickly it formed a solid mat before them. Crawford felt the confidence of the
horse beneath him and gave the animal its head, and they crashed headlong
through the hole Africano had spotted with his uncanny instinct. Filled with the
wild excitement of it, Crawford had begun shouting and swearing that way again,
adding his own hoarse obscenities to the roar of popping brush. But even all
this sound did not obliterate the noise. It came through his bellow and the
crash of brush with an insidious, sinister insistence, that constant menacing
hiss, like the threat of escaping steam. It filled him with an excitation which
did not come from the mad ride. And as he burst through the chaparral into the
open, the first snake struck. It happened so fast his own reaction did not come
till the snake had gone again. He had a dim sense of a sudden writhing shape
leaping from the last of the chaparral they were coming out of, and the sharp
snapping thud somewhere in front of him, and the horse's leap sideways,
screaming. Again his terrible grip was the only thing that kept the man in the
saddle, and they were tearing forward once more with a vague impression of that
writhing shape slithering off into the brush. They were crashing into the next
_mogote_ before Crawford realized the snake must have struck that _pechero_ on
the horse's chest. Now more of them were in sight. Fast as he was going, he
could still see the sleepy torpidity of the awakening snakes. He spotted what he
thought was a root lying in the thickness of a _mogote_, but as the black jumped
it, the root came alive, jerking in a surprised, sluggish way, and then one end
began to curl inward. But by the time the serpent had awakened fully and snapped
into its coil, Africano was by. Another one ahead woke faster. Crawford did not
see it till a flashing motion filled the lower corner of his vision. Again he
heard the sharp thump of the snake striking that _pechero_, and saw the
frustrated serpent drop away from the shield in a stunned way. The horse was in
a veritable frenzy now, lather foaming its mouth, screaming and whinnying and
fighting the hackamore madly without actually trying to change its direction. It
was no longer only the hissing all about them. It was the movement. On every
side the thickets seemed to have come alive. Writhing, slithering shapes
undulating in dim spasms through the pattern of brush. But the fact that they
were still awakening and the speed at which Crawford was going aborted the
greater part of their efforts. Time and again he saw a snake strike after he was
already by. Twice more one of them reached the horse, only to batter its head
against that stiff shield of cowhide. Then, beneath him, Crawford heard a thick,
slopping sound, and the black stumbled, and almost went down. With his spurs he
forced the animal farther on into the muck. It was not very deep and there were
patches of dry ground, but there was no more of that nightmarish movement about
him now. Only the incessant sinister sibilation to his rear. His body was
drenched with perspiration, and for the first time he realized he was panting in
a choked, rasping way. The horse was heaving beneath him, still fighting the
hackamore and fiddling around wildly. He suddenly felt as if he were going to
collapse. He bent forward, gripping the saddle horn, realizing it was only
reaction. Then, as strength returned in slow, undulating waves, the black
stopped abruptly, head raised, ears stiffened. Crawford automatically put his
heels into the animal. The _puro negro_ stood adamant. Then Crawford heard it,
and stopped trying to force Africano ahead. Suddenly the horse threw up its head
and let out a shrill, wild whinny. "Damn you," snarled Crawford in a guttural
voice. "I ought to--"

He stopped at the answering whinny from farther in the brush. "Crawford?" asked
someone from there. Crawford felt his body straighten involuntarily in the
saddle. "Yes, Quartel," he said. _Chapter Fifteen_

TREASURE HUNT CLIMAX

Perhaps it was the sound. The constant, incessant, unrelenting sound of those
snakes. Standing in this narrow strip of bog formed by the rising muck of the
underground river, the hissing was audible on both sides now. There was
something infinitely evil about it that clutched at a man's vitals. It filled
Crawford with a vague, primal panic, akin to the fear he had known of Africano
before, yet different, in a subtle, insidious way. "I knew it was you."
Quartel's voice startled him, coming from an entirely different direction than
before. "I heard you coming. I wish I could cuss the way you can, Crawford." It
was getting on Crawford's nerves. The black was becoming unmanageable beneath
him. Under other circumstances he would have been willing to play the game. But
the thought of Merida somewhere in there drove all the conditioned wariness from
him. Suddenly the black raised its head again; he pulled on the hackamore to
stifle the whinny in its throat, but he saw which direction it was turned in. He
flapped his legs out wide and brought the heels in hard, bolting the black into
the mesquite. They crashed through the _mogote_. Crawford had the Henry in his
right hand as they burst into the open, keeping it free of brush with the lever
down. A vague, blurred impression of Quartel sitting that _trigueño_ leaped into
Crawford's vision. With one motion he was jerking the hackamore against the left
side of the black's neck to wheel it toward the man, and then releasing the
hackamore completely to have both hands for his rifle, bringing the Henry up
into line with his right hand and slapping his left palm against the barrel at
the same time. In that last instant, as fast as he had moved, he had time to see
why Quartel had been doing it this way. The man had no gun in his hand. Even as
Crawford wheeled and brought his Henry up, Quartel was leaning forward with a
grunt, his arm snapping out. Crawford tried to duck the rope and fire at the
same time. He heard his bullet clatter through brush, after the thunder of the
shot, and knew he had missed. Then the edge of the loop struck his hand and slid
down his arm and closed over the gun. It was either let go the Henry or be
jerked from his horse. The rifle bounced along the ground, and for a moment it
looked as if Quartel were going to be able to pull it to him. Then it slipped
from the noose. The Mexican wheeled his _trigueño_ toward the rifle, and his
intent was patent. Crawford turned the black and quartered in on a line that
would bring him between Quartel and the Henry. Seeing how he would be blocked
off from reaching the gun, Quartel reared his horse to a stop, flirting in his
rope and catching it up in loops. Crawford, realizing that if he turned to
approach the Henry his back would be to Quartel and the man would have him with
that rope, halted his black too. For a moment, the two men sat there facing each
other across the open ground. It must have struck Quartel how it had to be, now,
about the same time the realization came to Crawford. The Mexican let out a
hoarse, violent laugh. "All right," he said. "I am the best roper in the world,
Crawford." He sat there, grinning, allowing Crawford to unlash the 40-foot
rawhide lasso from the black's rig. A picture formed in Crawford's mind that
filled him with a growing tension. A picture of Quartel blindfolded on that
_trigueño_ in the corral with one end of a rawhide dally tied about his neck and
ten snorting, stamping, vicious _ladinos_ tearing up the turf and the strange
sighing sound rising from the crowd of sweating, stinking _vaqueros_ every time
he threw the bull. It didn't help a man. It didn't help a man while he unhitched
the rawhide lashing on the saddle skirt from about the dally and shook out the
loops and watched the braided hondo slide down the slick rope. His motions were
stiff, jerky. He hadn't roped in a long time. "Hola!" bellowed Quartel, and
those great Chihuahua spurs rolled down the flanks of his brown animal like cart
wheels digging ruts in a road. Crawford jabbed his own guthooks into the black,
and Africano jumped into a dead run. The brown horse seemed to come at Crawford
in a surge that left no space for conscious thought. He knew what a mistake it
would be for him to make the first pass, and he bent forward in the saddle,
watching Quartel's hand. But the Mexican was waiting too, and the _trigueño_ was
completely past Crawford, with Crawford still holding his rope and twisting
around so he could watch Quartel, when the man made his throw. The Mexican
passed the rope over his shoulder, without looking at Crawford. In that
position, the movement of Quartel's arms was blocked off by his body, and
Crawford did not know the Mexican had made his toss till he saw the small, tight
loop spinning directly over his head. The throw was calculated to compensate for
Crawford's forward speed. All he could do to escape it was rein to one side or
the other. He bent forward so far on Africano his chest struck the saddle horn,
putting the reins against the black neck hard. The violence of the quarter turn
almost snapped Crawford from the saddle. He shouted with the pain stabbing
through his middle. He heard the faint sound of the rope striking Africano's
rump. Then he was tearing into a _mogote_ of mesquite. Instead of going on
through, he wheeled Africano within the thicket. The horse reared up, screaming
with the pain of turning in that cruel brush, and Crawford was charging out the
way he had come. Evidently expecting Crawford to go on through the mesquite,
Quartel was racing around the fringe to intercept him on the other side. This
caused the Mexican to be at Crawford's rear as he burst out the same spot he had
gone in. Crawford put his reins against Africano's neck, and again the horse
responded with that incredible turn, and Crawford found himself directly behind
the churning brown rump of the _trigueño_. The Mexican was already in the act of
wheeling his horse around to meet Crawford. Then he must have seen how Crawford
had turned after him, and realized how his own maneuver would place him, for he
tried to turn back. It was too late. Quartel's first turn had placed him
broadside to Crawford's oncoming black. Crawford had that one free pass at
Quartel's flank, with the Mexican in no position to defend himself by a throw of
his own. Crawford saw his loop settle over the man's head. "All right," he
shouted, and dallied his end of the rope around the saddle horn, wheeling
Africano away to pull Quartel off. But there was no weight on the rope. It fell
slackly from the horn, and Crawford twisted back to see what had happened. He
had seen Indians do it. One instant Quartel had been sitting the horse, the next
he wasn't. The loop fell across the back of the riderless _trigueño_, caught on
the cantle, slipped off. Then the Mexican appeared in the saddle again. He had
jumped completely off, hanging onto the horn with but one hand, to strike the
ground and bounce back up, the rope hitting while he was off on the far side
that way. The first wild action had left no time for much thought, but now, as
he recovered his rope and maneuvered to meet Quartel's next move, the sheer
deadliness of this struck Crawford fully. Like trying to figure out three or
four plays ahead in a poker game, with your life in the pot instead of a few
dollars. Well, he had been figuring one play ahead, ever since he had seen the
cards Quartel put down back there at the bull-tailing. It was the trick Quartel
had used on Indita. Crawford had spotted the weakness of it, even then. A man
could take advantage of that, if he had a horse which could turn quick enough.
Crawford remembered Quartel and Indita had been racing head-on at each other,
and he placed himself in the position to meet Quartel that way as the Mexican
trotted toward him from across the clearing now. The _trigueño_ was picking up
its feet in a high, excited action, lather marbling its snout and chest.
"_Vamanos_," Quartel roared, and raked the animal's bloody flanks with his
Chihuahua can openers, and they were racing at each other again. Quartel leaned
forward and threw his arm out with a grunt as they went by one another.
Crawford's own arm stiffened with the impulse to make his throw. Then he
realized Quartel's clothesline was not coming. The rest of it moved
automatically, without any conscious volition from Crawford. Holding his throw,
he allowed the black to race on past Quartel. Then, when he knew Quartel would
be wheeling that _trigueño_ to make his true cast at Crawford's retreating back,
Crawford yanked the _mecate_ against Africano's neck. He felt the movement of
the horse's shoulders beneath him, changing leads as it spun in full gallop on
its hind foot. No quarter turn this time. A half turn, switching ends completely
in that instant, so that he was facing Quartel instead of going away and, with
the horse still in motion, was racing back toward the Mexican. It caused
Quartel's rope to overshoot completely. Crawford saw the man's face twist in
surprise. Then Crawford made his cast. It was an underhanded throw with a
hooley-ann at the end. In wheeling, Quartel had come to a full stop. He made one
last abortive effort to turn his animal away, but the small loop caught him
before the _trigueño_ reacted. Then Crawford was on past the Mexican, with the
rope dallied on his horn and snapping taut. He heard Quartel make a strangled
sound of pain. Then there was the thump of him striking the ground. Crawford
tried to keep his black in full gallop and drag Quartel, but something within
him rebelled. He halted the animal and swung off, running back to catch the man
before he could rise. Quartel was on his knees, that rope still about his thick
neck, shaking his head dully. The mesquite rattled behind Quartel, and Merida
stepped out. She must have passed the Henry where it had been dropped. She held
it cocked in both hands, and her bosom was heaving, her face torn and bleeding
from the brush she had run through. They stared at each other without speaking.
Her eyes were wide and shining, and her lips started twisting across her teeth
without any sound coming out. Then, without any consciousness of having moved,
he found her body in his arms and her lips against his and the sound of her
expelled breath hot and hoarse in his ears. He didn't know how long he was lost
in it. Finally the other things began to come. The cold, hard feel of the rifle
barrel against his back where she held it in one hand with that arm around him.
The guttural sounds of pain Quartel was making trying to get that noose off his
neck. The crash of another passage through the mesquite. "Crawford, Crawford, I
knew you'd come, I knew they couldn't stop you, none of them--" It was Merida,
whispering it in a husky, passionate, barely coherent stream against his chest.
"I was so afraid. Thinking of you out there. All those snakes. I wanted you to
come and I didn't want you to. I didn't know what I wanted. I do now, I mean. I
guess I haven't known really what I wanted all my life, but I do now. I was so
afraid--"

"Merida--Where are you?" It was Huerta's voice, accompanying the rattle of the
thicket. Crawford lifted his face from the woman's, staring at the doctor as he
stumbled from the mesquite. The man's fustian was ripped and torn, and he was
dabbing at a cut on his cheek with a silk monogrammed handkerchief. He brought
himself to an abrupt halt, breathing heavily, when he saw them. Crawford
disengaged himself from Merida, taking the rifle out of her hand, still looking
at the doctor. There was something about the man that vaguely puzzled him. "Did
you find it?" Crawford asked Merida finally. A dim, bitter expression entered
Merida's face. "Yes," she said, "we found it." "What do you mean?" Crawford
muttered. She inclined her head through the mesquite, that strange expression
still on her features. Crawford frowned at her. Then he turned to jerk the Henry
at Quartel. The man had finally got that rope off his neck and stood there
rubbing the bruised flesh sullenly. He moved ahead of Crawford through the
brush. "You too, Doctor," said Crawford. They passed through the thicket and
crossed a boggy section. With the violence of the action over now, the hissing
of the snakes began to impinge on Crawford's consciousness again. Rising out of
the bog to the thick mat of greenish-brown toboso grass covering an island of
firm ground, they reached the first aparejo. It was one of the old X-shaped
packsaddles used by the original Mexican muleteers, with two brass-bound chests
lashed into it so that one would fall on each side of the mule. "The Mexicans
carrying this stuff must have been following the dry river bed and hit the
fringe of Snake Thickets about dusk," said Merida. "That's the only way they
could have got this far in. Then, when the snakes started waking up, and they
realized what they had wandered into, the men left the stuff here, knowing it
would be as safe as anywhere they could have hidden it, and shot their way out
through the snakes again." "Did you just stumble onto it too?" Crawford asked.
"Quartel had the other third of the _derrotero_," said Merida. "Quartel?"
Crawford's head lifted sharply to the man. He emitted a small, humorless laugh.
"That explains a lot of things." "Does it?" said Quartel. "It showed Quartel how
to find the aparejos once he was inside Mogotes Serpientes," Merida said. "But
not how to find Snake Thickets." Her eyes were on Crawford, and that odd
expression still filled her face. She moved her head toward the chest. "Go
ahead," she said. He kept Quartel and Huerta in sight when he knelt. The wood
was rotten and someone had torn the lid of one chest away from its brass
bindings. He lifted it, and stared at the black gunpowder filling the oak box.
The woman's voice sounded far away. "The Centralists must have done this. They
would have done anything to break Santa Anna's power at that time. They knew his
men were ready to desert because they hadn't been paid in three months. It was
only by the promise of this pay that Santa Anna held them together long enough
to fight the battle of San Jacinto. You can imagine their reaction if the train
had reached the army and they had found their pay to be nothing more than this."
She stared emptily at the case. "Twenty chests of gunpowder. That's ironic,
isn't it? All this trouble over twenty chests of gunpowder." Crawford rose
slowly, drawing himself back to present necessities by a distinct effort. "We'd
better start thinking about getting out of here." Huerta's feet made a small,
quick shift against the toboso grass. Crawford realized what it was in the man
now. That air of infinite ennui was beginning to dissipate before something
else; an indefinable tension tightened the little muscles about Huerta's mouth
till the soft flesh was furrowed like an old man's. The bluish, veined lower lid
of his right eye was twitching noticeably. "We can't go out now," he said, and
the strain was palpable in his voice. "Not through all those snakes again.
They're awake now." "This place dries up come daylight," said Crawford. "It
won't be any safer than out there. We have to leave sometime before then, and it
might as well be now." He began peeling off his gloves and handing them to
Merida; then his heavy denim ducking jacket and the bull-hide chaps. Huerta's
breathing became more audible as he watched it. "No," he said, "no--listen--"

"What's wrong with your gun?" Crawford asked Quartel. "Merida's horse got hit by
a snake about halfway through," said the Mexican. "She got pitched and Huerta
wouldn't stop to pick her up. I was following them pretty close and came across
her before she'd been caught by the snakes. But they were all waked up in that
section and I used my lead up shooting our way on into here. That's why I had to
use the rope on you." "What caliber you got?" Quartel looked surprised. "It's an
old Bisley .44." From the pocket of his levis, Crawford pulled a handful of his
.44 flat-noses. He stood there with the copper cartridges in his hand, meeting
Quartet's eyes. He held out his hand. Quartel stared at the handful of shells,
then he threw back his head and let out that Gargantuan laugh. "Crawford, you're
the craziest _barrachon_ I ever saw." He took the cartridges and broke his
Bisley and began thumbing them into the cylinder. Huerta lowered the
handkerchief from his scratched face, and his effort at control was more obvious
now. "I haven't got a gun," he said. "That's too bad," said Crawford. "No, no,
listen, you can't expect me to go out there without--"

He turned around and indicated Quartel should follow him through the mesquite to
their horses. Like the well-trained roper it was, the _trigueño_ had stopped the
instant Quartel left its back, and was standing in the same spot they had left
it. Africano must have run on across the bog and been stopped by his fear of the
snakes in the first dry thickets over there, for he came trotting back through
the mud, whinnying nervously. Crawford blocked the animal off against a _mogote_
of chaparral and caught it. "Get on first," he told the girl. "Crawford," Huerta
began again, "you can't--"

"Get your horse if you're coming with us," he told the man. Huerta opened his
mouth to say something more; then, with a strangled, inarticulate sound, he
turned and crashed back through the mesquite. In a moment he returned on the
copperbottom. It was a risky thing to do with such a green horse, but there was
no other way, and Crawford swung onto the black behind the cantle. The animal
kicked in a startled, angry way and started to buck. Crawford swung his arms
around in front of Merida to grab the _mecate_ and yank back hard on it,
spurring Africano at the same time. The _puro negro_ quit bucking and broke
forward, slopping into a muddy stretch. Crawford turned the horse to get Quartel
in front of him. They rode toward the edge of the bog that way. "You go first,
Quartel," Crawford said. "I'll follow you, Huerta. If you can keep your head and
stay in between us, we might be able to get you out. Just keep your head. That's
the whole thing. Get panicky and you're through. You can even get bit a couple
of times by snakes and still live to tell about it if you don't let it throw
you. It isn't the venom that kills a man so quick; it's when he gets spooked and
starts running and yelling and pumping all that poison through him a hundred
times as fast as it would spread if he just stayed calm. Savvy?" Huerta's
copperbottom fiddled beneath him. "Crawford, I can't. Not without a gun. You
can't ask me to." "Quartel?" said Crawford. "_Sí_," grinned the Mexican, and
flapped his feet out wide. The _trigueño_ bolted before Quartel's feet came back
in to kick his flanks, and then crashed into the thickets. Crawford held the
Henry in one hand and he waved it at Huerta. "Get going, damn you, I'm not going
to wait for you to puke, get going!" "No, I can't, not through there--" Huerta
saw Crawford swing out his feet, and whirled the copperbottom with a last
desperate shout, and crashed into the Snake Thickets after Quartel. Then
Crawford's heels struck the black, and they were going. At first it was only the
wild, crashing, pounding, yelling run through the mesquite. With Quartel leading
the way all they had to do was follow the trail he made, running through holes
he had burst in the thickets ahead of them. Then the snakes began. First it was
that sharp, dry thump against Africano's _pechero_, and the woman's shrill,
startled cry. Quartel's gun crashed from ahead of them, but Crawford was too
taken up with reining the black to use his Henry. He had that blurred impression
of violent undulation around him. There was another snapping thud against
Africano's buckskin shield, and a big diamondback fell to the ground beneath
them as they went by. Then it was the shrill scream from Huerta's copperbottom
ahead. Crawford saw the huge rattler dropping off the animal's rump, and the
copperbottom started to buck. "There it is," screamed Huerta, "there it is!"
"Don't lose your head," shouted Crawford. "Get him to running again. He'll last
through, Huerta, get him to running--"

Another rattler flashed from the thickets. The copperbottom reared up as the
snake struck, pawing the air wildly. Crawford came up from behind at a dead run
and Huerta's panicky reining brought the copperbottom down broadside to them.
Crawford jerked his whole body to the left with the desperation of his attempt
to rein the black around, but Africano smashed head-on into Huerta's animal.
Crawford had the sense of falling through a bedlam of Huerta's wild yells and
Merida's voice calling something and the animal's frenzied, agonized screaming.
Then he hit the ground with Merida coming down on top of him. It knocked the
breath from him and he struggled to get from beneath her, making a horrible
retching sound in his fight for breath. He got to his knees, surprised that he
still clutched the Henry. The copperbottom was already crashing off through the
brush, and Africano was just scrambling to his feet. Crawford lurched at the
black horse, but Africano whirled and galloped at a _ramadero_ of _cejas_,
smashing through and disappearing. There was a whirring sound from behind and
Merida's shriek. He whirled, snapping the lever on his Henry down at the same
time, and fired from the hip at the serpent coiled just beyond her. She had been
in the act of throwing herself away, and the slug driving into the snake aborted
its strike. The head fell heavily to the ground with only half its length
uncoiled. Crawford leaped to Merida, grabbing her roughly by the elbow and
yanking her erect. "Crawford, get me out, Crawford! Crawford!" It was Huerta,
rising from the patch of switch mesquite where he had been thrown. There was a
sallow, putty color to his face and that eye was twitching uncontrollably now.
He staggered toward them, his blasé, jaded sophistication swept away before the
terrible animal fear. A deadly rattle rose from behind him and he tried to run,
and stumbled, falling against Crawford. The woman's gasp made Crawford turn in
the direction she was looking, and he brought up the Henry, kicking free of
Huerta, firing at the snake which had writhed from the switch mesquite toward
them, shouting at Huerta. "Get up, then. I'll get you out. Get up!" Panting,
sobbing hoarsely, Huerta pulled himself up, staring about him wildly, starting
like a frightened deer at every new sound. Crawford put the woman directly
before him and started moving forward. Huerta cringed at his side, clawing at
him, and he had to keep shoving the man away. "Hurry, Crawford, hurry, please,
what are you doing this for? We'll never--"

"Let go," Crawford bawled at him. "It won't do to lose our heads and start
running. How can I--"

"No, Crawford, no--"

Shouting it, Huerta reeled back against him. Crawford had to fight the man off
and wheel that way and fire all at once. He couldn't have hit the snake anyway.
It had already been in the middle of its lunge. "I'm hit," screamed Huerta.
"Crawford, I'm hit. Save me. I'll do anything. Help me!" "Keep your head,
Huerta. Quit fighting like that!" "No, Crawford, for God's sake!" Huerta was
floundering around blindly, shouting and clutching at Crawford, who tried to
kick him away so he could keep the gun going. Another rattler slithered from the
thickets, and he fired wildly at it. "Huerta!" cried Merida, tearing at the man,
the panic gripping her voice and twisting her face, "don't be a fool. Let him
go, let him go--"

"No. Get me out! I'll do anything, Crawford, admit anything. You were right. I'm
no doctor. I had two years in France and they dismissed me. The opium. There.
Now. I've told you--" His babble broke off in a wild shriek. Crawford had not
seen the snake strike. It fell away from Huerta's back, slithering off into the
thicket. Huerta crawled toward Crawford on his hands and knees, a faint, yellow
froth forming at his lips. He clutched at Crawford's legs, shouting up at him.
"I'll tell you anything, please, anything. I was the one who killed Otis
Rockland. Is that what you want? I knew Tarant had given him that piece of the
_derrotero_, and I knew Otis was in that hotel room. I'd just reached him when
you arrived, and I had to escape by the balcony without getting the map--"

Again his hoarse bawling broke off in a scream. His struggles had carried them
both over to a thicket, and Crawford could see the same snake Huerta did, coiled
almost at their feet. He tore free of the doctor's frantic hands, throwing
himself back, and firing at the serpent. He tripped and fell heavily onto his
back, seeing the snake jerk with the slug but reach Huerta anyway. Screaming,
the doctor fought to gain his feet. "Get me out, Crawford, get me out," he
howled, pawing the writhing, thumping thing off in horror, whirling to run
blindly away from it across the small opening. "It wasn't Quartel who had
Whitehead try to bushwhack you that time, either. It was me. I wanted the third
of the _derrotero_ you had. And I was the one who tried to get Merida's third in
the house during the bull-tailing. Please, Crawford, what more can you want? Get
me out now!" He looked like some frenzied beast, greasy black hair down over his
face, froth drooling off his chin. He stumbled blindly into a _mogote_ of
chaparro _prieto_, and tried to turn and get out. But there must have been a
nest of them in the black chaparral, and they caught him there. "No, Crawford,"
he screamed, as the first one struck, with a fleshy spissitude, knocking him to
his knees in the thicket, "they're all around me," and his voice broke as a
second one caught him. "For Christ's sake, Crawford, get me out. I told you,
didn't I?" he sobbed, trying to crawl on through. And then another one struck
him. "Oh, for God's sake, Crawford, please, for God's sake." And another, and he
was lying on his belly, still trying to crawl, and his voice had sunk to a
pitiful wailing, like a little child weakening, sinking until it was barely
audible. "Please, get me out, oh, please, Crawford, get me out," and then dying
finally, beneath the crescendo hissing of the snakes, "Get me out, I'll do
anything, only please get me out--"

After it had ceased, Crawford felt himself twitch, and realized how long he had
been crouching there in a dazed shocked immobility at such a bizarre, terrifying
display. It was like awakening from a deep sleep. There was a thick, sweet taste
in his mouth, and he was sweating, and movement came with a strange pain. He saw
that Merida was standing over him, staring at the brush with that same stunned
horror in her face. His movement caused her to turn in something akin to
surprise. She looked at him a moment before her eyes dropped to his hand; he was
rising, but the sound she made stopped him. It must have struck him sometime
during his struggles with Huerta. He did not remember when. The twin red
punctures on the back of his hand were oozing blood thickly. With a curse, he
started to rise again and get the rifle, but Merida caught him. "No, Crawford.
The knife. Your bowie. You've got to get it now before it spreads." She was on
her knees beside him, pulling the bowie from his boot where he had thrust it
after winding those strips of blanket on. "The snakes," he said, "the snakes--"

"If we sit still they won't come for a minute. Now--I've got to." She met his
eyes, then bent over his hand with the blade. He felt himself turn rigid, but it
caused him less pain than he anticipated. She did it in three quick, skillful
strokes. "I told you my mother was a _curandera_. I've seen her do this a dozen
times. Find some Spanish dagger and you can get a poison from it that makes as
good an antidote as any." She bent to suck the wound, and now it was beginning
to come. _Take it easy._ The hissing bore in on him with a physical weight.
_Take it easy, damn you. That's why Huerta's through. He lost his head. All
right. Get up, then, damn you, get up._ He got up. The motion drew his hand from
Merida's fingers, and she rose too. He had scooped up the Henry in rising, and
he pulled the lever down. No fired shell popped out, and he realized the
magazine must be empty. He reached in his right-hand pocket for fresh loads, and
pulled out his hand, empty. The woman's eyes followed the movements in a
fascinated way as he shifted the rifle so he could reach into his left-hand
pocket. Again his hand came out empty. Merida's gaze raised to his, and they
stared at each other blankly for a long moment. A small, hopeless sob escaped
her. The first, faint, snapping crackle came from behind, turning him that way.
It was a big diamondback, slithering from the switch mesquite. It stopped as it
caught sight of them, and its long, shimmering body coiled with oily facility.
The ugly hammerhead raised, and the glittering opacity of its cruel little eyes
held Crawford's gaze in a viscid mesmerization. Then it began to rattle.
"Crawford--"

The woman's agonized whisper brought his eyes around the other way. Another
serpent, as big around as his lower leg, had crawled from a _mogote_ of
huisache. Again it was the soft snap of decaying vegetation that lay thickly
over the ground, and the cessation of this as the snake saw them and stopped,
and that swift coiling movement, and that sibilant rattle. "Crawford," said
Merida, in a hoarse, strained whisper. "We can't move. They'll strike as soon as
we move. They're all around us and we can't move--"

"No," he said gutturally. "Remember they don't often strike above the hip.
You've got those batwings. Just keep your feet, that's all, just keep your
feet." "There's another one," she said, and he saw the panic was gripping her
the way it had Huerta. "We can't move, Crawford. Not a step. They'll have us."
"Merida," he said. "You've got to. Don't lose your head. Just start walking." "I
can't," she said, in a strangled, pathetic way, "Crawford, I can't--"

He could feel that animal fear rising up in him, to blot out all his terrible
control. Sweat formed gleaming streaks through the grime of his face. His right
hand was clenched so hard around the useless gun it ached. Gritting his teeth,
he summoned the awful, supreme effort of will it would take for him to make that
first step. His whole body was stiffened for it, when the first thunderous
detonation came from out in the brush. There was a second, and a third, before
Crawford recognized them as gunshots. This was followed by a long crashing of
brush, and Quartel burst into view. This movement caused the snake on Crawford's
right to strike. It hit his leg with a solid thump, knocking him over against
Merida, and though he knew the fangs had not penetrated the triple thickness of
Chimayo blanket around his calf, he could not hold back his hoarse, fearful
shout. Quartel had fired twice at the second rattler, knocking it back before it
could strike. The serpent tried to recoil and strike again, in a weak, abortive
way, and Quartel jumped at it with a curse, stamping on its head. Then he
whirled away to fire at a third one beyond Merida. "Hola!" bellowed Quartel.
"Let's go. You only got a little stretch left and we'll be out." "You!" said
Crawford blankly, gaping at him. "Who else?" grinned the man. He caught Crawford
by the shoulder, shoving him forward. "Come on, I tell you. We ain't got time
for coffee." The rest of it was Quartel's bellowing gun and the crash of
mesquite and Merida's hoarse, uncontrollable sobbing and a nightmarish sense of
movement within and without him as he staggered through the thickets. At last he
found himself face down on gritty sand, his breathing settling down to the
shallow exhalation of complete exhaustion. He looked up to see Quartel squatting
over him, that grin on his sweaty, greasy face. The woman was sitting up on the
bank beyond Quartel, the batwings lying at her feet. Crawford realized he was
barefooted and the blanketing had been stripped off his legs. "The chaps saved
Merida," said Quartel. "And that Chimayo on you was a good idea. The only thing
you got is that hand. I don't think it will cause you too much trouble, the way
she fixed it." "Why did you come back?" said Crawford. Quartel shrugged. "For
the same reason you gave me those shells back in the bog when you didn't know
for sure whether I'd use them on you or the snakes, I guess." He sat there
looking at Crawford a while. "I'm sort of glad it was Huerta that killed
Rockland," he said finally. He laughed, at the look Crawford gave him. "_Sí._
You could have heard that Huerta yelling up in San Antone. My horse went down
just as I got out, and I was lying here in the sand when Huerta cut loose. He
really cracked up good, didn't he? It sort of finishes my job out here." Merida
came over and lowered herself to her knees beside Crawford, and he sat up,
staring at Quartel. "Your job?" That pawky grin was on the Mexican's face.
"_Sí._ Like I said I knew one who pinned it to his undershirt. Me, I couldn't
even do that. Only a damn fool would come into the _brasada_ with a badge. But I
got a commission back in San Antonio from the federal government." Crawford
continued to stare at the man a long time, and it all went through his head,
before he said it. "_Marshal_ Quartel?" "That's right," said the Mexican. "Maybe
I look like I should be a _rurale_, but I'm a citizen of the States and my
father was before me. They sent me out to get you a couple of weeks after
Rockland was killed. Other lawmen had been given the job without meeting much
success. I guess you know about that. I figured you'd turn up at your old corral
sooner or later, so I had the Nueces Cattle Association recommend me to Tarant
as qualified to rod the roundup he was managing for Rockland's estate. By the
time you'd showed up at the Big O, I'd been there long enough to find out that,
whether you murdered Rockland or not, there was more to the whole business than
just the personal trouble between you and him. That _derrotero_ for instance.
I'd gotten a third of it from Whitehead. He'd found it many years ago on the
body of one of the Mexican muleteers, who had been shot in the brush by
Houston's men but apparently had gotten away from them to die. It was the
section of the map which showed Snake Thickets, and how to find the chests once
you got inside the thickets, but not how to find the thickets themselves. When
you finally arrived, I had to choose between nabbing you then, or staying on and
trying to find out what was really behind the murder." "Then, those other
lawmen--"

"The ones I told you about when I found you at Delcazar's?" Quartel giggled
slyly. "I'm the only lawman I seen in the _brasada_ since I came. You were
pretty jumpy, Crawford. I thought if I cinched the girth up tight enough it
might squeeze out some interesting things." There was no apology in his voice
for how he had used Crawford. The elemental brutality of the man was in his
greasy, thick-featured face, and the courage, too. _And it would take that
kind_, thought Crawford, _to come into a place like this. I can cuss better and
ride better and rope better than any hombre in the world._

"Not rope better." "What?" said Quartel. "Nothing," said Crawford, sitting up to
pull on his boots. "How about Tarant?" "He was involved all right," said
Quartel. "He knew Rockland had that section of the map, and allowed Huerta to
stay at the Big O, undoubtedly having made some deal with him to split the money
when they got it. Since it was Huerta that murdered Rockland, we might be able
to nab Tarant as an accessory." With a weary breath, Crawford rose. "We can
reach Del's from here in a couple of hours. He needs tending to, and that old
Chihuahua cart of his will be better than walking back." Quartel got up and
turned to climb the bank toward the brush. Merida started after him, but
Crawford caught her arm. "Out there in the thickets," he said. "I didn't quite
get it. You were all mixed up. Something about not knowing what you'd wanted all
your life, and knowing now." "Maybe seeing those chests of gunpowder made me
realize it fully," she said. "It could be symbolical, in a way, of money. You
seek it all your life, and when you finally get it, you realize it isn't what
you want, after all." "What _do_ you want?" "Don't you know?" He gazed at her
without speaking for a moment. Her face had taken on that feminine softness. Her
eyes met his widely, shining a little. He was suddenly swept with the desire to
shout or cry or laugh or take her in his arms, he didn't know which, the
realization swelled so swiftly within him. It had all been so broken and aborted
and bitterly frustrating between himself and Merida before, and now it was so
complete. Yet, somehow, it was too poignant to express here. He reached out and
took her hand. "Let's go," he said.