CHAPTER I. PAGE

IN WHICH CECIL BANBOROUGH ACHIEVES FAME, AND THE "DAILY LEADER" A   "SCOOP"
3

CHAPTER II. IN WHICH CECIL BANBOROUGH ATTEMPTS TO DRIVE PUBLIC OPINION
18

CHAPTER III. IN WHICH CECIL BANBOROUGH DRIVES A BLACK MARIA
36

CHAPTER IV. IN WHICH THE BLACK MARIA RECEIVES A NEW INMATE
54

CHAPTER V.

IN WHICH THE PARTY RECEIVES A NEW IMPETUS                           72

CHAPTER VI. IN WHICH THE BISHOP OF BLANFORD RECEIVES A BLACK EYE
92

CHAPTER VII. IN WHICH A LINE IS DRAWN AND CROSSED
107

CHAPTER VIII. IN WHICH A LOCKET IS ACCEPTED AND A RING REFUSED
131

PART II. _ENGLAND_. CHAPTER I. IN WHICH MRS. MACKINTOSH ADMIRES JONAH
151

CHAPTER II. IN WHICH THE ENEMY ARRIVES
173

CHAPTER III. IN WHICH PEACE IS PROPOSED AND WAR DECLARED
198

CHAPTER IV. IN WHICH THE BISHOP IS ABDUCTED
222

CHAPTER V.

IN WHICH THE BISHOP EATS JAM TART, AND MISS MATILDA HUMBLE-PIE     250

CHAPTER VI. IN WHICH MISS ARMINSTER PROPOSES TO MARRY AGAIN
269

CHAPTER VII. IN WHICH MISS ARMINSTER VERIFIES THE PROVERB
288

PART I. _AMERICA_. CHAPTER I. IN WHICH CECIL BANBOROUGH ACHIEVES FAME AND THE
"DAILY LEADER" A "SCOOP." Cecil Banborough stood at one of the front windows of
a club which faced on Fifth Avenue, his hands in his pockets, and a cigarette in
his mouth, idly watching the varied life of the great thoroughfare. He had
returned to the city that morning after a two weeks' absence in the South, and,
having finished his lunch, was wondering how he could manage to put in the time
till the 4:30 express left for Meadowbrook. 2 P.M., he reflected ruefully, was
an hour when New York had no use and no resources for men of leisure like
himself. Yet even for a mere onlooker the panorama of the street was of unusual
interest. The avenue was ablaze with bunting, which hurrying thousands pointed
out to their companions, while every street-corner had its little group of
citizens, discussing with feverish energy and gestures of ill-concealed
disquietude the situation of which the gay flags were the outward and visible
sign. For in these latter days of April, 1898, a first-class Republic had, from
purely philanthropic motives, announced its intention of licking a third-rate
Monarchy into the way it should go. Whereat the good citizens had flung
broadcast their national emblem to express a patriotic enthusiasm they did not
feel, while the wiser heads among them were already whispering that the war was
not merely unjustifiable, but might be expensive. All these matters, important
as they doubtless were, did not interest Cecil Banborough, and indeed were quite
dwarfed by the fact that this uncalled-for war had diverted the press from its
natural functions, and for the time being had thrown utterly into the shade his
new sensational novel, "The Purple Kangaroo." His meditations were, however,
interrupted by the sound of voices using perfectly good English, but with an
accent which bespoke a European parentage. "'The Purple Kangaroo,'" said one.
"It is sufficiently striking--_Si, Senor_?" "It serves the purpose well, _mi
amigo_," replied the other. "It is, as you say, striking; indeed nothing better
could be devised; while its reputation--" And the voices died away. Cecil swung
rapidly round. Two gentlemen, slight, swarthy, and evidently of a Latin race,
were moving slowly down the long drawing-room. They were foreigners certainly,
Spaniards possibly, but they had spoken of his book in no modified terms of
praise. He drew a little sigh of satisfied contentment and turned again to the
street. Ah, if his father, the Bishop of Blanford, could have heard! The two
foreigners had meanwhile continued their conversation, though out of earshot.
The elder was speaking. "As you say, its reputation is so slight," he said, "one
of those ephemeral productions that are forgotten in a day, that it will serve
our purpose well. We must have a password--the less noticeable the better. When
do you return to Washington?" "The Legation may be closed at any moment now,"
replied the younger, seating himself carelessly on the arm of a Morris chair,
"and I may be wanted. I go this afternoon, _a dios y a ventura_." "Softly; not
so loud." "There's no one to hear. Keep us informed, I say. I'll see to the
rest. We've our secret lines of communication nearly complete. They may turn us
out of their capital, but--we shall know what passes. _Carramba!_ What is that?"
For, in leaning back, the speaker had come against an unresisting body.
Springing up and turning quickly round, he saw that the chair on the arm of
which he had been sitting was already occupied by the slumbering form of a
youngish man with clear-cut features and a voluminous golden moustache. "_Madre
de Dios!_ Could he have heard?" exclaimed the younger man, moving away.
"_Malhaya!_ No!" replied the other. "These pigs of Americanos who sleep at
noonday hear nothing! Come!" And, casting a glance of concentrated contempt at
the huddled-up figure, he put his arm through that of his companion, and
together they left the room. A moment later the sleeper sat up, flicked a speck
of dust off his coat-sleeve, and, diving into a pocket, produced a note-book and
blue pencil and began to write rapidly. Evidently his occupation was a pleasant
one, for a broad smile illumined his face. "Ah, Marchmont," said Banborough,
coming towards him, "didn't know you'd waked up." "Was I asleep?" "Rather. Don't
suppose you saw those Spanish Dons who went out just now?" "Spaniards?" queried
Marchmont, with a preoccupied air. "What about 'em?" "Oh, nothing in particular,
only I supposed that a Spaniard to a yellow journalist was like a red rag to a
bull. You should make them into copy--'Conspiracy in a Fifth Avenue Club,' etc."
"Thanks," said the other, "so I might. Valuable suggestion." And he returned his
note-book to his pocket. "They did me a good turn, anyway," resumed Banborough.
"They were talking about my book--thought it would serve its purpose, was very
striking, said nothing better could be devised; and they were foreigners, too. I
tell you what it is, Marchmont, the public will wake up to the merits of 'The
Purple Kangaroo' some day. Why doesn't the _Daily Leader_ notice it?" "My dear
Cecil, give me the space and I'll write a critique the fulsome flattery of which
will come up to even your exacting demands. But just at present we're so busy
arousing popular enthusiasm that we really haven't time." "You never do have
time," replied Banborough, a trifle petulantly, "except for sleeping after
lunch." "Ah, that's all in the day's work. But tell me. You're an Englishman;
why didn't you publish your book in your own country?" "I may be green, but I
don't impart confidences to an American journalist." "Nonsense! I never betray
my friends' confidences when it's not worth--I should say, out of business
hours." The Englishman laughed. "Oh, if you don't think it worth while," he
said, "I suppose there's no danger, so I'll confess that my literary exile is
purely to oblige my father." "The Bishop of Blanford?" "The Bishop of Blanford,
who has the bad taste to disapprove of 'The Purple Kangaroo.'" "Has he ever read
it?" "Of course not; the ecclesiastical mind is nothing if not dogmatic." "My
dear fellow, I was only trying to assign a reason." "Chaff away, but it's
principally my Aunt Matilda." "The Bishop, I remember, is a widower." "Rather.
My aunt keeps house for him." "Ah, these aunts!" exclaimed the journalist. "They
make no end of trouble--and copy." "It's not so bad as that," said Cecil; "but
she rules the governor with a rod of iron, and she kicked up such a row about my
book that I dropped the whole show." "Don't correspond with 'em?" "Not on my
side. I receive occasional sermons from Blanford." "Which remain unanswered?"
Cecil nodded, and changed the subject. "You know my father's cathedral?" he
asked. "Oh, yes. The verger prevented my chipping off a bit of the high altar as
a memento the last time I was over. You English are so beastly conservative. Not
that the Bishop had anything to do with it." Banborough laughed, and returned to
the charge. "So I came abroad," he continued, "and approached the most
respectable and conservative firm of publishers I could find in New York." "Was
that out of consideration for the Bishop?" "I thought it might sweeten the pill.
But somehow the book doesn't sell." "Advertising, my boy--that's the word." "The
traditions of the firm forbid it," objected Banborough. "Traditions! What's any
country less than a thousand years old got to do with traditions?" spluttered
Marchmont. "I knew a Chicago author who got a divorce every time he produced a
new novel. They sold like hot cakes." "And the wives?" "Received ten per cent.
of the profits as alimony." "Talk sense, and say something scandalous about me
in the _Leader_. What possessed you, anyway, to join such a disgraceful sheet?"
"If I'd an entailed estate and an hereditary bishopric, I wouldn't. As it is, it
pays." "The bishopric isn't hereditary," said Cecil. "I wish it were. Then I
might have a chance of spending my life in the odour of sanctity and idleness,
and the entail is--a dream." "So you write novels," retorted Marchmont, "that
are neither indecent nor political, and expect 'em to succeed. Callow youth!
Well, I must be off to the office. I've some copy up my sleeve, and if it's a go
it'll give your book the biggest boom a novel ever had." "Are you speaking the
truth?" said the Englishman. "I beg your pardon. I forgot it was out of
professional hours." "Wait and see," replied the journalist, as he strolled out
of the club. *       *       *       *       *

"Hi, Marchmont, I've got a detail for you!" called the editor, making the last
correction on a belated form and attempting to revivify a cigar that had long
gone out. "Yes?" queried Marchmont, slipping off his coat and slipping on a pair
of straw cuffs, which was the chief reason why he always sported immaculate
linen. "We're on the track of a big thing. Perhaps you don't know that the
President has delivered an ultimatum, and that our Minister at Madrid has
received his passports?" "Saw it on the bulletin-board as I came in," said his
subordinate laconically. "Well, it's a foregone conclusion that the Spanish
Legation will establish a secret service in this country, and the paper that
shows it up will achieve the biggest scoop on record." "Naturally. But what
then?" "Why, I give the detail to you. You don't seem to appreciate the
situation, man. It's the chance of a lifetime." "Quite so," replied Marchmont,
lighting a cigarette. "But you can't lose a minute." "Oh, yes, I can--two or
three. Time for a smoke, and then I'll write you a first-column article that'll
call for the biggest caps you have in stock." "But I-- What the-- Say, you know
something!" "I know that the secret service has been organised, I know the
organisers, and I know the password." Here Marchmont's chief became unquotable,
lapsing into unlimited profanity from sheer joy and exultation. "I'll give you a
rise if you pull this off!" he exclaimed, after hearing the recital of the
events at the club. "May I be"--several things--"if I don't! Now what are you
going to do about it?" "Suppose we inform the nearest police station, have the
crowd arrested, and take all the glory ourselves." "Suppose we shut up shop and
take a holiday," suggested the chief, with a wealth of scorn. "Well, what have
you to propose?" "We must work the whole thing through our detective agency."
"But we haven't a detective agency," objected Marchmont. "But we will have
before sunset," said the chief. "There's O'Brien--"

"Yes. Chucked from Pinkerton's force for habitual drunkenness," interjected his
subordinate. "Just so," said the editor, "and anxious to get a job in
consequence. He'll be only too glad to run the whole show for us. The city shall
be watched, and the first time 'The Purple Kangaroo' is used in a suspicious
sense we'll arrest the offenders, discover the plot, and the _Daily Leader_, as
the defender of the nation and the people's bulwark, will increase its
circulation a hundred thousand copies! It makes me dizzy to think of it! I tell
you what it is, Marchmont, that subeditorship is still vacant, and if you put
this through, the place is yours." The reporter grasped his chief's hand.
"That's white of you, boss," he said, "and I'll do it no matter what it costs or
who gets hurt in the process." "Right you are!" cried his employer. "The man who
edits this paper has got to hustle. Now don't let the grass grow under your
feet, and we'll have a drink to celebrate." When the chief offers to set up a
_sub_ it means business, and Marchmont was elated accordingly. *       *       *
*       *

At the Club the Bishop's son still contemplated the Avenue from the vantage-
point of the most comfortable armchair the room possessed. Praise, he reflected,
which was not intended for the author's ear was praise indeed. No man could tell
to what it might lead. No one indeed, Cecil Banborough least of all, though he
was destined to find out before he was many hours older; for down in the
editorial sanctum of the _Daily Leader_ O'Brien was being instructed:

"And if you touch a drop during the next week," reiterated the chief, "I'll put
a head on you!" "But supposin' this dago conspiracy should turn out to be a
fake?" objected the Irishman. "Then," said the reporter with determination,
"you'll have to hatch one yourself, and I'll discover it. But two things are
certain. Something's got to be exposed, and I've got to get that editorship."
CHAPTER II. IN WHICH CECIL BANBOROUGH ATTEMPTS TO DRIVE PUBLIC OPINION. It is a
trifle chilly in the early morning, even by the first of May, and Cecil shivered
slightly as he paced the rustic platform at Meadowbrook with his publisher and
host of the night before. "You see," the great man was saying, "there's an
etiquette about all these things. We can't advertise our publications in the
elevated trains like tomato catsup or the latest thing in corsets. It's not
dignified. The book must succeed, if at all, through the recognised channels of
criticism and on its own merits. Of course it's a bad season. But once the war's
well under way, people will give up newspapers and return to literature."
"Meantime it wants a boom," contended the young Englishman, with an insistence
that apparently jarred on his hearer, who answered shortly:

"And that, Mr. Banborough, it is not in my power to give your book, or any other
man's." There was an element of finality about this remark which seemed to
preclude further conversation, and Cecil took refuge in the morning paper till
the train pulled into the Grand Central Station, when the two men shook hands
and parted hurriedly, the host on his daily rush to the office, the guest to
saunter slowly up the long platform, turning over in his mind the problems
suggested by his recent conversation. The busy life of the great terminus grated
upon him, and that is perhaps the reason why his eye rested with a sense of
relief on a little group of people who, like himself, seemed to have nothing
particular to do. They were six in number, two ladies and four gentlemen, and
stood quietly discussing some interesting problem, apparently unconscious of the
hurrying crowds which were surging about them. Cecil approached them slowly, and
was about to pass on when his attention and footsteps were suddenly arrested by
hearing the younger of the two ladies remark in a plaintive voice:

"But that doesn't help us to get any breakfast, Alvy." "No, or dinner either,"
added the elder lady. "Well," rejoined the gentleman addressed as "Alvy," who,
in contrast to the frock coats and smart tailor-made gowns of his three
companions, wore an outing suit, a short overcoat of box-cloth, a light, soft
hat, and a rather pronounced four-in-hand tie. "Well, I'm hungry myself, as far
as that goes." Banborough was astonished. These fashionably dressed people in
need of a meal? Impossible! And yet--he turned to look at them again. No, they
were not quite gentlefolk. There was _something_-- He stumbled and nearly fell
over a dress-suit case, evidently belonging to one of the party, and marked in
large letters, "H. Tybalt Smith. A. B. C. Company." Actors, of course. That
explained the situation--and the clothes. Another company gone to pieces, and
its members landed penniless and in their costumes. It was too bad, and the
young woman was so very good-looking. If only he had some legitimate excuse for
going to their assistance. Suddenly he stood motionless, petrified. An idea had
occurred to him, the boldness and originality of which fairly took his breath
away. "The Purple Kangaroo" wanted advertising, and his publishers refused to
help him. Well, why should he not advertise it himself? To think was to act.
Already the company were starting in a listless, dispirited way towards the
door. The Englishman summoned all his resolution to his aid, and, overcoming his
insular reticence, approached the leader of the party, asking if he were Mr.
Smith. "H. Tybalt Smith, at your service, sir," replied that portly and imposing
individual. Cecil Banborough bowed low. "I hope you'll not think me intrusive,"
he said, "but I judge that you're not now engaged, and as I'm at present in want
of the services of a first-class theatrical company, I ventured to address you."
"The manager skipped last evening," remarked the man in mufti. "Alvy," corrected
Mr. Smith, "I will conduct these negotiations. As Mr. Spotts says, sir," he
continued, indicating the last speaker, "with a colloquialism that is his
distinguishing characteristic, our manager is not forthcoming, and--a--er--
temporary embarrassment has resulted, so that we should gladly accept the
engagement you offer, provided it is not inconsistent with the demands of art."
"Oh, cut it short, Tyb," again interrupted the ingenuous Spotts. Mr. Smith cast
a crushing glance at the youth, and, laying one hand across his ample chest,
prepared to launch a withering denunciation at him, when Cecil came to the
rescue. "I was about to suggest," he said, "that if you've not yet breakfasted
you would all do so with me, and we can then discuss this matter at length." Mr.
Smith's denunciation died upon his lips, and a smile of ineffable contentment
lighted up his face. "Sir," he said, "we are obliged--vastly obliged. I speak
collectively." And he waved one flabby hand towards his companions. "I have not,
however, the honour of knowing your name." Cecil handed him his card. "Ah,
thanks. Mr. Banborough. Exactly. Permit me to introduce myself: H. Tybalt Smith,
Esq., tragedian of the A. B. C. Company. My companions are Mr. Kerrington, the
heavy villain; Mr. Mill, the leading serious. Our juvenile, Mr. G. Alvarado
Spotts, has already sufficiently introduced himself. The ladies are Mrs.
Mackintosh, our senior legitimate," indicating the elder of the two, who
smilingly acknowledged the introduction in such a good-natured, hearty manner
that for the moment her plain, almost rugged New England countenance was lighted
up and she became nearly handsome. "And," continued Mr. Smith, "our leading
lady, the Leopard-- I mean Miss Violet Arminster," pointing to the bewitching
young person in the tailor-made gown. Each of the members bowed as his or her
name was spoken, and the tragedian continued:

"Ladies and gentlemen of the A. B. C. Company, I have much pleasure in
introducing to you--my friend--Mr. Cecil Banborough, who has kindly invited you
to breakfast at--the Murray Hill? Shall we say the Murray Hill? Yes." The
ensuing hour having been given up to the serious pursuit of satisfying healthy
appetites, the members of the A. B. C. Company heaved sighs of pleasurable
repletion, and prepared to listen to their host's proposition in a highly
optimistic mood. Banborough, who had already sufficiently breakfasted, employed
the interval of the meal in talking to Miss Arminster and in studying his
guests. Mrs. Mackintosh, who seemed to take a motherly interest in the charming
Violet, and whose honest frankness had appealed to him from the first, appeared
to be the good genius of the little company. As he came to know her better
during the next few days, under the sharp spur of adversity, he realised more
and more how much goodness and strength of character lay hidden under the rough
exterior and the sharp tongue, and his liking changed into an honest admiration.
Mr. Smith was ponderous and egotistical to the last degree, while Spotts seemed
hail-fellow-well-met, the jolliest, brightest, most good-looking and resourceful
youth that Cecil had met for many a long day. The other two men were the most
reserved of the company, saying little, and devoting themselves to their meal.
But it was to Miss Arminster that he found himself especially attracted. From
the first moment that he saw her she had exercised a fascination over him, and
even his desire for the success of his book gave way to his anxiety for her
comfort and happiness. She was by no means difficult to approach; they soon were
chatting gaily together, and by the time the repast was finished were quite on
the footing of old friends--so much so, indeed, that Cecil ventured to ask her a
question which had been uppermost in his mind for some time. "Why did Mr. Smith
call you the Leopard when he introduced you to me at the station?" he said.
"Oh," she answered, laughing, "that's generally the last bit of information my
friends get about me. It has terminated my acquaintance with a lot of gentlemen.
Do you think you'd better ask it, just when we are beginning to know one
another?" "Are you another Lohengrin," he said, "and will a white swan come and
carry you off as soon as you've told me?" "More probably a cable-car," she
replied, "seeing we're in New York." "Then I shall defer the evil day as long as
possible," he answered. "You seem to forget," she returned, "that I don't know
as yet what our business relations are to be." "And you seem to forget," he
replied, "that there are still some strawberries left on that dish." She sighed
regretfully, saying:

"I'm afraid they must go till next time--if there's to be a next time."
Banborough vowed to himself that instead of confining the advertisement of his
book to the city alone, he would extend it to Harlem and Brooklyn--yes, and to
all New York State, if need be, rather than forego the delight of her society.
"Isn't your father an English bishop?" continued Miss Arminster, interrupting
his reverie. "Now how on earth did you know that?" exclaimed Cecil. The little
actress laughed. "Oh, I know a lot of things," she said. "But I was merely going
to suggest that we call you 'Bishop' for short. Banborough's much too long a
name for ordinary use. What do you say, boys?" turning to the men of the
company. A chorus of acclamation greeted this sally, and to the members of the
A. B. C. Company Cecil Banborough was 'the Bishop' from that hour. "And now,"
said the Englishman, "that you've christened me, suppose we come to the business
in hand?" Every one was at once intently silent. "I am," he continued, "the
author of 'The Purple Kangaroo.'" The silence became deeper. The audience were
politely impressed, and the heavy villain did a bit of dumb show with the
leading serious, which only needed to have been a trifle better to have proved
convincing. "Yet," continued the author, "owing to the popular interest in an
imminent war and a lack of energy on the part of my publishers, the book doesn't
sell." "Impossible!" exclaimed Mr. Smith. "Impossible! Why, I was saying only
the other day to Henry Irving, 'Hen,' I said--I call him 'Hen' for short,--'that
book--'"

"What you say doesn't cut any ice," broke in Spotts. "What were you saying,
sir?" "I was about to remark," continued Banborough, "that what the novel needs
is advertising. For an author to make the round of the shops is so old an
artifice that any tradesman would see through it." "It is," interjected the
tragedian. "I have more than once demanded the lower right-hand box when I was
playing the leading role." "And always got it," added Spotts. The silence was
appalling, and Cecil rushed into the breach, saying:

"It's occurred to me, however, that if a number of people, apparently in
different walks of life, were to call at the various bookshops and department
stores of the city, demanding copies of 'The Purple Kangaroo,' and refusing to
be satisfied with excuses, it might create a market for the book." "A first-rate
idea!" cried Spotts heartily. "But supposing it was in stock?" suggested the
more cautious duenna. "I shall of course see you're provided with funds for such
an emergency," the author hastened to add; "and if you ladies and gentlemen feel
that you could canvass the city thoroughly in my interests at--ten dollars a day
and car-fares?" he ventured, fearing he had offered too little. "I should rather
think we do," said Spotts emphatically. "Ten dollars a day and car-fares is
downright luxury compared with one-night stands and a salary that doesn't get
paid. You're a might good fellow, Mr. Banborough," continued the young actor,
"and Violet and I and the rest of the company will do our best to make your book
a howling success." And as he spoke he laid his hand familiarly on the little
actress's shoulder, an action which did not altogether please Cecil, and made
him realise that in the attractive young comedian he had found a strong rival
for Miss Arminster's favour. "Well, then, we'll consider it settled," he said;
whereat the company arose and clasped his hands silently. Their satisfaction was
too deep for words. Spotts was the first to rouse himself to action. "Come," he
said, "we mustn't lose any time. Your interests are ours now, Mr. Banborough,
and the sooner we get to work the more thoroughly we'll earn our salary," and
touching a bell, he said to the answering messenger:

"Bring me a New York directory," thereby showing an honest activity which was
much appreciated by his employer. An hour later, the company, fully primed,
departed joyfully on their mission. Banborough, rich in the comforting sense of
a good morning's work well accomplished, retired to his club to dream of the
success of his book. In spirit he visited the book-stalls, noting the growing
concern of the clerks as they were obliged to turn away customer after customer
who clamoured for "The Purple Kangaroo." He saw the hurried consultations with
the heads of firms, who at length realised their blind stupidity in neglecting
to stock their shelves with the success of the season. He saw the dozens of
orders which poured into the publishing house, and heard in fancy that sweetest
of all announcements that can fall upon an author's ears: "My dear sir, we have
just achieved another edition." So dreaming, he was rudely awakened by a slap on
the shoulder, and the cheerful voice of Marchmont, saying:

"Who's asleep this time?" "Not I," replied his friend, "only dreaming." "Of the
success of 'The Purple Kangaroo'?" asked the journalist. "Well, you'll have it,
old man--see if you don't--and live to bless the name of Marchmont and the
_Daily Leader_. Why, thousands will be reading your book before the week's out."
"What do you mean?" gasped the Englishman. "Surely you don't know--?" For he
feared the discovery of his little plot. "Know!" replied the journalist. "I know
that your book has leaped at one bound from fiction to the exalted sphere of
politics. Now don't you breathe a word of this, for it's professional, but the
Spanish secret-service agents have taken the title of your novel as their
password. The city is watched by our own special corps of detectives, and the
instant 'The Purple Kangaroo' is used in a suspicious sense we arrest the spies
and unravel the plot." "But, good heavens, man! You don't understand--" began
Banborough. "I understand it all. I tell you the _Daily Leader_ will not shrink
from its duty. It'll leave no stone unturned to hound the offenders down. I dare
say they may be making arrests even now, and once started, we'll never pause
till every Spanish sympathiser who has knowledge of the plot is under lock and
key." "Stop! Stop!" cried Cecil. "You don't know what you're doing!" "Oh, trust
me for that, and think of the boom your book'll get. I'll make it my special
care. I tell you 'The Purple Kangaroo' will be all the rage." "But you're making
a ghastly mistake," insisted the author. "You must listen to me--"

"Can't!" cried Marchmont, springing up as the sound of shouts and clanging bells
fell upon his ear. "There's a fire! See you later!" and he dashed out of the
club and was gone. Cecil sank back in his chair fairly paralysed. "Good heavens!
Suppose any of the company should be suspected or arrested! Supposing--"

"A gentleman to see you, sir," said a page at his elbow. "Show him in!" cried
Banborough, fearing the worst, as he read Tybalt Smith's name on the card. There
was no need to have given the message. The actor was at the page's heels,
dishevelled, distraught. "Do you know we're taken for Spanish spies?" he gasped.
"Yes, yes; I've just heard--"

"But they've arrested--"

"Not one of your companions--Spotts, Kerrington, or Mill?" "No," said the
tragedian, shaking his head, "they've arrested Miss Arminster." CHAPTER III. IN
WHICH CECIL BANBOROUGH DRIVES A BLACK MARIA. Cecil Banborough's feelings can be
better imagined than described at the announcement of the calamity which had
befallen Miss Arminster. The winsome ways of the charming Violet had impressed
the young man more deeply than he knew until he was brought face to face with a
realisation of the miseries to which his own folly had exposed her. "Where have
they taken her?" he demanded of Smith as soon as his consternation could find
expression. "She's at the police station round the corner from here." "Where did
this occur?" asked Banborough. "On Fourteenth Street," replied Smith, "Spotts
and I met Miss Arminster, and she called out as she passed me, 'Don't forget
"The Purple Kangaroo!"' A minute later the police arrested her, and when the
crowd heard that she was a Spanish spy, I swear I think they'd have torn her in
pieces if the officers hadn't put her in a prison van and got her away." The
tragedian paused, shivering from his recent agitation, and Cecil, seeing his
condition, rang for some brandy. "But what does it all mean?" asked the actor,
tossing off his drink. "I know what it means," cried Banborough, "but there's no
time to talk now. We've not a moment to lose!" and he rushed downstairs. Spotts
met them at the doorway, and, as they walked rapidly along, the young Englishman
poured into his companions' ears an account of what he had learned from
Marchmont of the Spanish plot and the unforeseen use which had been made of the
title of his book, while the tragedian rehearsed again the story of Miss
Arminster's arrest, of his own hair-breadth escape from the clutches of the law,
of his prodigies of valour in connection with Spotts, whom he had met in his
headlong flight, and who, it seemed, had prevailed on his more timid companion
to follow the prisoner in a hansom. "It's a bad business," admitted Cecil; "but
what's to be done?" "Done!" exclaimed Smith in tragic tones. "Why, rescue the
lady instantly and leave the city without delay. In the present excited state of
the public no amount of explanation will avail. We may all be arrested as
confederates. We must act!" "You're talking sense for once," said Spotts.
"Heroic measures are the only ones worth considering, and if you"--turning to
Banborough--"will stand by us, we may come out on top after all." "You can
depend on me to any extent," declared the young author. "I've got you into this
scrape, and I'll do my best to get you out of it." "That's just what I expected
of you, Bishop!" exclaimed Spotts, grasping his hand. "We can't waste time in
talking. You must go and find the other members of the company, Tyb, and warn
them of their danger. Now where can we rendezvous outside the city? Speak
quickly, some one!" "The leading hotel in Yonkers," said Smith. "Right you are,"
replied Spotts. "Get there as soon as possible and wait for us to turn up. How
about funds?" "I've plenty of ready money with me," volunteered Cecil, "and very
fortunately a draft to my credit arrived to-day, which I've not yet cashed."
"Good!" said Spotts. "We're in luck. Give Tyb fifty." Banborough whipped out a
roll of bills and handed the desired amount to the tragedian without demur.
"Now, off you go," cried his brother actor, "and keep your wits about you."
Smith nodded and hailed a passing cab. "Come," said Spotts to the author, "we've
no time to lose." "What's your plan?" asked Cecil as they swung round the corner
and sighted the police station. "Haven't got any as yet. We'll see how the land
lies first. The Black Maria's still before the door. That's lucky!" Sure enough,
there it was, looking gloomily like an undertaker's wagon, minus the plate
glass. "Must be hot inside," commented the actor, directing a glance at the two
little grated slits high up in the folding doors at the back, which apparently
formed the only means of ventilation. Cecil shuddered as he thought of the
discomforts which the girl must be enduring, and longed to throw himself upon
the vehicle and batter it to pieces. But calmer judgment prevailed, and
controlling himself he approached the police station, saying:

"Let me go first. You might be recognised. I'll try and find out where she's to
be taken." He accordingly went up to the driver of the Black Maria, who, cap in
hand, was wiping his perspiring forehead. "A fine pair of horses that," he said,
indicating the mettlesome bays attached to the vehicle, which, in spite of their
brisk run, were tossing their heads and fretting to be off. "Oh, they're good
enough," was the curt reply. "A trifle fresh, but we need that in our business."
"Something interesting on to-day?" queried Cecil. "Who the devil are you,
anyway?" asked the driver abruptly. And the Englishman, lying boldly, replied:

"I'm the new reporter on the _Daily Leader_. I was here last week with Mr.
Marchmont on a burglary case." "Oh, the New Rochelle robbery," suggested the
driver. Cecil acquiesced, drawing a quiet sigh of relief that his random shot
had hit the mark. "Yes," he said, "that's it. I was introduced round, but I
don't remember meeting you." "Might have been the other driver, Jim?" "Now I
come to think of it, it was Jim." "Jus' so. Well, there's copy for you in this
case." "So I imagined. It's your first political arrest, isn't it?" "That's
where the hitch comes in," said the man. "I don't know where to deliver the
prisoner. When the court's made up its mind they'll let me know, and I'll drive
on. Now in the Civil War we sent them politicals to Fort Wadsworth." "So you
have to wait till they decide?" "You bet I have. And there ain't no superfluity
of shade on the sunny side of this street neither," replied the driver, as he
slipped off his coat and hung it with his cap on a peg beside the box seat of
the Black Maria. "Suppose you were to run into the court and see how they're
getting on," suggested Banborough, slipping a coin into his hand. "I want a word
with the police when they've finished. Mention the _Daily Leader_. I'll watch
your horses." "Oh, they'll stand quiet enough," said the man. Then,
suspiciously, jerking his thumb over his shoulder towards Spotts, he asked:
"Who's yer pal?" "Just a green hand whom I'm initiating into the business."
"You're pretty green yourself or you wouldn't have set me up," said the driver.
"But if you'll mind them horses I'll just run across to McCafferty's saloon and
have a schooner of beer, and then drop into court for you." "All right,"
responded Cecil. "Only don't be all day; I've got another detail." "Say,"
rejoined the man, "I can put beer down quicker than you can wink." And he ran
across the street. "Well, what's to be done?" demanded Banborough, as the man
left them. "That's easily answered," replied Spotts. "When he's in court we'll
jump on the box, drive for all we're worth till we've eluded pursuit, then
rescue Miss Arminster and be off to Yonkers." "But that's laying ourselves open
to arrest," expostulated the Englishman. "We've done that already," said his
friend. "But they'll know we're not officials: we've no uniform." "What, not
when the driver has obligingly left his hat and coat?" said Spotts. "Slip them
on. You've dark trousers, and no one will suspect." "But driving fast--?"
protested the author. "Well, we're going to a 'hurry call,' of course. You've no
invention, man! And besides, I can't drive." "Oh, that doesn't matter," said
Banborough. "I understand all about horses." "So I supposed, as you're an
Englishman." "I don't care much for this business, you know," remonstrated the
unfortunate author. "Neither do I," replied the actor. "But we might as well be
killed for a sheep as a lamb, and we've a good chance of winning. Here comes the
driver; give him a bluff." "I ain't lost much time," panted that individual as
he passed them, wiping the foam from his moustache with the back of his hand,
and adding: "I'll run right into court and be out again in a jiffy!" "Stay long
enough to see how things are going," called Cecil. "All right! Guess the
horses'll stand," he replied, and disappeared within the building. "Now,
Bishop!" cried Spotts. And before the Englishman could think, his coat and hat
had been whipped off and thrown on the box seat along with a small handbag which
the actor carried, and he was being helped into the very hot and unsavoury
clothes of the driver. "Lucky they fit you," said his friend. "Lead the horses
carefully to the corner, and see they don't make more noise than necessary. If
the driver should come out, you let 'em go; otherwise wait for me. Know where to
drive?" "Along the park?" "No," said Spotts. "Double several times, then try one
of the avenues to the Harlem River. There are plenty of bridges. Now, careful!"
And as Cecil moved slowly off, leading the horses towards the upper corner, the
actor lounged up to the entrance of the court, blocking the doorway with his
athletic figure. After what seemed an eternity, Banborough achieved the corner
of the block, and, mounting the box, turned the horses' heads down the side
street, keeping an eagle eye upon the entrance of the court-room, within which
his companion had now disappeared. Perhaps three minutes had elapsed when the
actor came out, running quietly towards him so as not to attract attention. The
street was well-nigh deserted, and no one seemed to have noticed the movements
of the Black Maria. "Walk slowly till we're round the corner, and then drive for
all you're worth!" gasped Spotts, springing on to the seat beside him. Cecil
followed his directions implicitly, and a moment later they went tearing down
the side street, and swung round the corner into an avenue, nearly colliding
with a cable-car in the process, and causing a wild scatteration of passengers
and pedestrians. "Here, that won't do!" cried the actor above the rattle
occasioned by their rapid progress over the cobblestones. "Ring the bell, or
we'll be arrested!" "Where?" called Banborough. "That knob under your feet.
Press it!" The Englishman did as directed, and instantly the most hideous
clamour arose beneath the carriage. The horses, which had been flying before,
excited by the noise, put down their heads and tore blindly forward. The vehicle
rocked and swayed, and the avenue and its occupants swept by in an
indistinguishable blur. "They'll surely track us by the noise!" screamed Cecil,
trying to make himself heard above the horrible din. "We're too far off by this
time," returned Spotts. "Can you manage the horses?" "Oh, they're all right so
long as we've a clear road!" yelled Banborough in reply. They were now well
under way, the traffic ahead of them swerving wildly to right and left at the
insistent clamour of the bell. They rushed forward by leaps and bounds, an
occasional stretch of asphalt giving them an instant's respite from the dreadful
shaking of the cobblestones. They spoke but little, excitement keeping them
quiet, but the Englishman suffered keenly in spirit at the thought of what the
delicate girl, shut up in that dark stifling prison behind them, must be
undergoing. Suddenly in front of them loomed up the helmeted figure of a
policeman, swinging his club and gesticulating wildly. "Run him down!" howled
Spotts; and Cecil, who had caught some of the madness of their wild flight,
lashed the horses afresh and hurled the Black Maria straight at the officer of
the law. The constable, still gesticulating, made a hasty leap to one side, and
they swept by a huge express-wagon which was coming up the cross-street, nearly
grazing the noses of the rearing horses, and catching a glimpse of the driver's
startled face. So they ran on and on, faster and faster as the traffic became
less, and the pair of bays settled down in earnest to the race. Suddenly the
street narrowed, and a confused mass of carts and horses seemed to block up the
farther end. Banborough put on the brake, and with considerable difficulty
succeeded in bringing his team to a standstill on the outer edge of the throng.
"It's the Harlem River," cried Spotts, "and the drawbridge is up, curse the
luck!" There was nothing for it but wait, and Cecil, jumping down, patted the
horses and examined the harness to make sure that everything was all right. "You
seem in a rush," said a neighbouring driver. "Hurry call to Harlem," replied
Banborough brusquely. "Whereabouts?" "Oh, police station." "What station?" The
Englishman grunted an inaudible reply as a forward movement of the crowd
betokened that the bridge was again in position. A moment later they were
trotting towards freedom and the open country, Cecil making the horses go slower
now, wishing to reserve their strength for any unforeseen emergency. As the
buildings grew more scattered, and patches of woodland appeared here and there,
the actor began to discuss with his companion their plan of campaign. "The
sooner we get Violet out of her prison," he said, "and leave this confounded
vehicle behind, the better." "It's rather too well populated about here to suit
me," replied Banborough. "But the police haven't been idle since we started, and
our flight has probably been telegraphed all over the countryside. Perhaps we'd
better run the risk, for if we're caught red-handed with the Black Maria we'll
find some difficulty in proving our innocence." "Besides which, I'm anxious to
get Miss Arminster out of durance vile as soon as possible, for I think the
Leopard's been caged long enough," said Spotts, laughing. "Why do you people
insist on calling Miss Arminster the Leopard?" asked Banborough. "Oh," said his
companion, "I think I'd better let you find that out for yourself. It would
hardly be fair to Violet, and besides--" Then, breaking off suddenly as they
entered a strip of woodland, he changed the conversation abruptly, saying:
"Here's as good a place as we're likely to find--no houses in sight, and a clear
view of the road in either direction." And as Cecil drew up the horses he jumped
off the box. "How are you going to open the confounded thing?" asked the author.
"Well," replied his companion, "I should think a key would be as good a method
as any other." "The best, provided you've got the key." "I imagine you'll find
it in the right-hand outside pocket of the driver's coat," said Spotts. "I
thought I heard something jingle as I was helping you on with it." "Right you
are," said the Englishman. "Here it is!" producing two nickel-plated keys on a
ring. "Now we'll have her out in no time." And running round to the back of the
vehicle, he unlocked the folding doors and threw them wide open, crying:

"My dear Miss Arminster, accept your freedom and a thousand pardons for such
rough treatment. What the--!" And he stopped short, too surprised to finish;
for, instead of the petite form of the fascinating Violet, there shambled out on
to the road the slouching figure of a disreputable tramp, clothed in nondescript
garments of uncertain age and colour, terminating in a pair of broken boots, out
of which protruded sockless feet. He had a rough shock of hair, surmounted by a
soft hat full of holes, and a fat German face, whose ugliness was further
enhanced by the red stubbly growth of a week's beard. "I guess youse gents has
rescued me unbeknownst, and I'm much obleeged, though I don't know but what I'd
rather break stones up to Sing Sing than be chucked round the way I has been for
the last hour." "Who are you?" demanded Banborough. "Me?" said the figure. "Oh,
I'm a anarchist." CHAPTER IV. IN WHICH THE BLACK MARIA RECEIVES A NEW INMATE. At
the sight of this astonishing and utterly unlooked-for personage, the actor and
the Englishman stood for a moment gaping at each other in surprised silence.
Then, as the full force of what they had done occurred to them, and they
realised that, at great risk of life, limb, and freedom, they had rescued from
the clutches of the law an utterly worthless tramp, they burst into peals of
uncontrollable laughter. "But where's Violet?" gasped Spotts, who was the first
to recover himself. "Oh, there's a lady in there, if you mean _her_," said the
tramp, indicating the cavernous depths of the Black Maria. "Yes, I'm here all
right," came the welcome tones of the little actress's voice. "I'll be out in
just a moment, as soon as I've put myself straight. You're the most reckless
drivers I ever saw." "I'm awfully sorry," said Banborough, approaching the door
to help her out. "But circumstances didn't leave us much choice." "Apparently
not," she replied, and a moment later stood in their midst, looking even more
bewitching than usual in her dishevelled condition. Then as she drew a long
breath, inhaling the fresh woodland air, and realising all the joy of her
restored freedom, the eternal feminine reasserted itself, and, seizing both of
Spotts's hands, she cried impetuously: "Look at me, Alvy, and tell me if my hat
is straight." They all laughed, which broke the tension of the situation. "I
don't know what you must think of us," said Banborough. "I thought I was being
run away with at first," she said; "but when I heard Alvy's voice on the box I
knew it must be all right." "Of course," continued Cecil, "we hadn't the least
idea there was anybody else in the van." "Oh, I didn't mind so much," she said.
"He was quite nice and respectful, and very soft to fall on. I guess he must be
all black and blue from the number of times I hit him." "Well, you're safe, and
that's the main thing," said Spotts. "But what does it all mean?" she demanded.
"Oh, there's time enough for explanations later on," returned the actor. "We're
not out of the woods yet." "Of course we aren't, stupid! Any one can see that."
"Metaphorically, he means," said Cecil. "But, joking apart, this Black Maria is,
so to speak _particeps criminis_, and the sooner we lose it the better." "Which
way shall we go?" she asked. "Oh, that's been all arranged beforehand with the
other members of the party," said Spotts, purposely omitting to mention their
destination in the presence of their undesirable companion. "It can't be more
than a mile or two across country to the Hudson River Railroad, and we'd better
make for the nearest station. Do you feel up to walking?" "Do I feel up to
walking!" she exclaimed. "Well, if you'd been chucked round for an hour without
being consulted, I guess you'd feel like doing a little locomotion on your own
account." And without another word the three turned to get their belongings.
"Say," interjected the tramp, "where do I come in?" "Oh, but you don't," said
Spotts. "We're going to leave you this beautiful carriage and pair with our
blessing. Better take a drive in the country and enjoy the fresh air." "Yah!"
snarled the disreputable one in reply. "That don't go! It's too thin! Why, look
here, boss," he continued, addressing Banborough, "you went and 'scaped with me
without so much as sayin' by your leave, and now, when you've gone and laid me
open to extra time for evadin' of my penalty, you've got the cheek to propose to
leave me alone in a cold world with _that_!" And he pointed expressively at the
Black Maria. "It is rather hard lines," admitted Cecil. "But, you see, it would
never do to have you with us, my man. Why, your clothes would give us away
directly." "And I'll give yer away directly to the cops if you don't take me
along." Banborough and Spotts looked at each other in redoubled perplexity. "You
see," continued the anarchist, "I don't go for to blow on no blokes as has stood
by me as youse has, but it's sink or swim together. Besides, you'd get lost in
this country in no time, while I knows it well. Why, I burgled here as a boy."
"What's to be done?" asked Cecil. "Oh, I suppose we've got to take him along,"
replied the actor. "We're all in the same boat, if it comes to that." "Now if
youse gents," suggested the tramp, "could find an extra pair of pants between
you, this coat and hat would suit me down to the ground." And he laid a dirty
paw on Banborough's discarded garments. "No you don't!" cried that gentleman,
hastily recovering his possessions. "Haven't you got any clothes in that bag of
yours, Spotts?" "Well, I _have_ got a costume, Bishop, and that's a fact,"
replied the actor; "but it's hardly in his line, I should think." "What is it?"
asked the Englishman. "You seem about of a size." "It's a Quaker outfit. I used
it in a curtain-raiser we were playing." "That would do very well," said Cecil,
"if it isn't too pronounced." "Oh, it's tame enough," replied the actor, who
exercised a restraint in his art for which those who met him casually did not
give him credit. Indeed, among the many admirable qualities which led people to
predict a brilliant future for Spotts was the fact that he never overdid
anything. "Huh!" grunted the tramp, "I dunno but what I'd as lieve sport a
shovel hat as the suit of bedticking they give yer up the river. I used to work
round Philidelphy some, and I guess I could do the lingo." "Give them to him,"
said Banborough. "I'll make it good to you." "Well, take them, then," replied
Spotts regretfully, handing their unwelcome companion the outfit which he
produced from his bag, adding as he pointed to the woods: "Get in there and
change quickly. We ought to be moving." The tramp made one step towards the
underbrush, and then, pausing doubtfully, said:

"You don't happen to have a razor and a bit of looking-glass about yer, do yer?
I see there's a brook here, and there ain't nothin' Quakery about my beard." The
actor's face was a study. "I'm afraid there's no escape from it, old man,"
remarked Cecil. "If you've your shaving materials with you, let him have them."
"There they are. You needn't trouble to return them." Their recipient grinned
appreciatively, and as the last rustle of his retirement into privacy died away,
Miss Arminster turned to Banborough and demanded:

"Now tell me what I was arrested for, why you two ran away with me, and where
I'm being taken." "I can answer the first of those questions," broke in Spotts.
"You're a Spanish sympathiser and a political spy." "I'm nothing of the sort, as
you know very well!" she replied, colouring violently. "I'm the leading lady of
the A. B. C. Company." "Of course _we_ know it," returned the actor; "but the
police have chosen to take a different view of the matter." "Why is he chaffing
me like this?" she said, appealing to Cecil. "I'm afraid it's a grim reality,"
he replied. "You see, when the Spanish officials were turned out of Washington,
they'd the impertinence to take the title of my book as their password." "Well,
then," she said, "they did what they'd no right to do." "I suppose that would be
a question of international copyright," he replied. "But 'The Purple Kangaroo'
has proved itself a most troublesome animal, and as I thought you wouldn't care
for quarters down the bay till the war was over, I took the liberty of running
off with you." "I'm very much obliged to you, I'm sure; but what next?" "We're
all to rendezvous at Yonkers." "And then?" "Well, unless the situation improves,
I'm afraid it'll become a question of seeking a refuge in another country." "If
you think," she cried, "that I'm going to spend the rest of my existence in the
forests of Yucatan or on the plains of Patagonia, you're mightily mistaken!"
"Oh," he said, laughing, "it isn't as bad as all that. Ours is only a political
crime, and Canada will afford a safe harbour from the extradition laws." "But
the war won't be finished in a day," she contended, her eyes beginning to fill
with tears. "Won't you trust me?" asked Cecil, taking both her hands. "Won't you
let me prove my repentance by guarding your welfare? Won't you--"

Indeed there is no knowing to what he might have committed himself in the face
of such beauty and sorrow had not Spotts broken in with a cry of:

"It's all up now! We're done for, and no mistake!" And he pointed to the figure
of a short, fat, red-faced man, very much out of breath, who was bustling down
the road, waving his hands at them and shouting "Hi!" "You'd better go and warn
the tramp," said Banborough; and the actor plunged into the woods. A moment
later the stranger came up to them, and panted out:

"I arrest you both, in the name of the law!" Neither said anything, but
Banborough took one of Miss Arminster's tiny gloved hands in his own and gave it
a little squeeze just by way of reassuring her. "Well," said the new arrival, as
soon as he had recovered his breath, "what have you got to say for yourselves?"
"I don't know that we've anything to say," replied Cecil sheepishly. "I should
think not!" said the other. "Here, take off that coat!" And he stripped the
official garment from the Englishman's shoulders. "The cap, too!" Banborough
handed it to him, saying as he did so:

"You're a police official, I suppose?" "I'm the Justice of the Peace from the
next town. They just missed catching you at the last place you drove through,
and telegraphed on to me. Knowing there was a cross-road here, I wasn't going to
take any chance of losing you. I left the police to follow. They'll be along in
a minute. Now what do you mean by it?" "I don't suppose any explanations of mine
would persuade you that you're making a mistake," said Banborough. "No, I don't
suppose they would. Now you put on that coat accidentally, didn't you? Just
absent-mindedly--"

"I don't know you," broke in the Englishman, "and I don't--"

"That'll do," said the Justice of the Peace. "I don't know you either, and--yes,
I do know the woman." Then turning to Miss Arminster, he continued: "Didn't I
perform the marriage ceremony over you the year before last?" "Yes," she said
softly. And Cecil relinquished her hand. This, he considered, was worse than
being arrested. "I thought I did," went on the magistrate. "I don't often forget
a face, and I'm sorry to see you in such bad company." The young girl began to
show signs of breaking down, and the situation was fast becoming acute, when the
unexpected tones of an unctuous voice suddenly diverted everybody's attention.
"Why is thee so violent, friend?" said some one behind them. And turning
quickly, they perceived the sleek, clean-shaven, well-groomed figure of a
Quaker, dressed in a shad-bellied brown coat, a low black silk hat with a curved
brim, and square shoes. "Who the devil--!" began the officer. "Fie! fie!" said
the stranger. "Abstain from cursings and revilings in thy speech. But I am glad
thee hast come, for verily I feared the workers of iniquity were abroad." "Oh,
you know something about it, do you?" asked the Justice of the Peace. "I was
returning from a meeting of the Friends," continued the Quaker blandly, "when I
came upon these two misguided souls. As my counsellings were not heeded, and I
am a man of peace, I had retired into the woods to pursue my way uninterrupted,
when I heard thee approach." "Well, I'll be glad of your assistance, though I
daresay I could have managed them until the police came. They're a dangerous
pair. "And what will thee do with the other prisoner, friend?" "Eh? What other
prisoner?" "The one that lies in a debauched sleep at the farther end of the
van. I have striven to arouse him, but in vain." "Where is he?" said the
magistrate, peering into the black depths of the waggon. "In the far corner.
Thee canst not see him from here." "I'll have him out in no time!" exclaimed the
officer, springing into the van, with the driver's hat and coat still in his
hand. "Not if I knows it, you old bloke!" cried the sometime Quaker, slamming
the door and turning the key with vicious enjoyment, while his three companions,
for Spotts had emerged from the wood, executed a war-dance round the vehicle out
of sheer joy and exultation. From within proceeded a variety of curses and
imprecations, while the Black Maria bounced upon its springs as if a young
elephant had gone mad inside. Suddenly the Quaker laid a detaining hand upon
Banborough's shoulder, saying:

"Take care, boss; here come the cops! I'll play the leading role, and you follow
the cues." They all paused and stood listening, while the rapid beat of a
horse's hoofs came to their ears, and a second later a Concord waggon, loaded
down with policemen, swung into view round the corner of the road, and presently
drew up beside them. "Thee hast come in good time, friend," said the Quaker to
the chief officer. "We have watched thy prisoners overlong already." "Where's
the boss?" demanded the official. "Dost thee mean the worldly man with the red
face, much given to profane speaking?" "I guess that's him," laughed one of the
subordinates. "As I was returning from a meeting of the Friends with these good
people," pursued the Quaker, indicating his companions, "we came upon this
vehicle standing in the road, the horses being held by two men, who, when they
saw us, ran into the woods towards the river." "How were they dressed?" asked
the chief officer. "One of them had garments like thine, friend." "That's our
man, sure!" "Very presently," resumed the Quaker, "came thy master, using much
unseemly language, who, having heard our story, followed the men in the
direction we indicated, begging that we guard this carriage till you came, and
bidding us tell you to return with it to the town." "Well, I guess the boss
knows his own business best," said the leader of the party; "so we'd better be
getting back to the station. I suppose you'll come and give your evidence." "I
am a man of peace," said the Quaker; "but if my testimony is required I and my
friends will walk behind thee to the next town and give it." "It's only half a
mile from here, a straight road--you can't miss it. You'll be there as soon as
we want you." The Quaker nodded. "Then we'd better be moving," said the chief
officer. "I'll drive Maria, and you fellows go ahead in the cart." The remarks
which were now proceeding from the interior of that vehicle were much too
dreadful to record. But as it was about to start, the man of peace, lifting his
hands, checked the driver and said:

"I will, with thy permission, approach the grating and speak a word of counsel."
And going to the door, he said in a loud voice:

"Peace, friend. Remember what the good Benjamin Franklin has said: 'He that
speaks much is much mistaken.'" The reply elicited by these remarks was of such
a nature that Miss Arminster was obliged to put her hands over her ears, and the
police drove off with loud guffaws, enjoying immensely the good Quaker's
confusion. "That bloke," remarked the tramp, as the Black Maria disappeared in a
cloud of dust, "give me three months once, an' I feels better." And without
another word he led the party across the road and into the woods in the
direction of the river. CHAPTER V.

IN WHICH THE PARTY RECEIVES A NEW IMPETUS. An hour later, when the little party
of four, weary and dusty, walked up to the hotel at Yonkers, they perceived
Tybalt Smith in his shirt-sleeves, with his hat tipped over his eyes as a
protection from the rays of the declining sun, lying fast asleep in a large
garden chair which was tilted back on its hind legs against the side of the
house. Spotts lost no time in poking him in the ribs with his cane, whereupon
the tragedian, rousing himself from slumber, hastily assumed a more upright
position, bringing the chair down on its front legs with a bang. Having thus
been fully awakened, he became at once the master of the situation. "We are
here," he said. "So I see," replied Spotts, "and a pretty show you've made of
yourself. There's nothing private or retiring about your methods. Now where are
the rest of the party?" Mr. Smith at once assumed an air of mysterious
solemnity. "Mrs. Mackintosh," he said in a stage whisper, "is above. I reserved
an apartment for her and the Leop--Miss Arminster, I mean, and a private
sitting-room for us all. Mrs. Mackintosh is disturbed. Mrs. Mackintosh requires
an explanation. Mrs. Mackintosh," turning to Banborough, "is a woman of great
character, of great force, and she requires an explanation of _you_!" "Ha!" said
Spotts, casting a look of mock commiseration at the Englishman. "Perhaps it
might be better," suggested the tragedian, "if Miss Arminster saw her first."
"Perhaps it might," acquiesced Spotts. "All right, I'll go," said Violet; adding
to Cecil, as she passed him: "Don't be frightened; her bark's worse than her
bite." And she entered the house laughing. "But where are the others?" asked the
author. "Sh!" whispered the tragedian, casting a suspicious glance at the
Quaker. "We're not alone." "Yes," said Spotts, "the Bishop's got a new convert."
"Oh," returned Banborough, "I forgot you hadn't met this gentleman. We
inadvertently rescued him, and since then he's done us a similar service twice
over. I really don't know what he's called. The clothes belong to Spotts." "I
thought I recognised the costume," said Smith. Then, turning to the stranger, he
demanded, abruptly: "What's your name?" "I have been known by many," came the
suave tones of the Quaker, "but for the purposes of our brief acquaintance thee
mayst call me Friend Othniel." The tragedian gave a grunt of disapproval. "I
think he can be trusted," remarked Spotts. "He's certainly stood by us well, so
far. Now tell us about Kerrington and Mill." "Yes, I'm most anxious to know
what's become of them," said the Englishman. And the three drew nearer together,
while the Quaker, turning to the road, stood basking in the sunshine, his broad
flabby hands clasped complacently before him. Tybalt Smith, after casting
another furtive glance in Friend Othniel's direction, murmured the words:

"Shoe-strings and a sandwich!" "Eh? What?" queried Banborough. "Our two
friends," continued the tragedian, "through the powerful aid of a member of our
fraternity, whose merits the public have hitherto failed to recognise, have
sought refuge in the more humble walks of life to escape the undesirable
publicity forced upon them by _you_! Mr. Kerrington, disguised as a Jew pedlar,
is now dispensing shoe-strings and collar-buttons on lower Broadway, while Mr.
Mill is at present taking a constitutional down Fifth Avenue encased in a
sandwich frame calling attention to the merits of Backer's Tar Soap. He is, if I
may so express it, between the boards instead of on the boards--a little
pleasantry of my own, you will observe." The tragedian paused, but failing to
elicit the desired laugh, continued his narration:

"Mrs. Mackintosh, though having been offered a most desirable position to hawk
apples and chewing-gum on Madison Square, has preferred to share the rigours of
an unknown exile, that she might protect the youthful innocence of our leading
lady." "All of which means," said Spotts shortly, "that Mill and Kerrington
chose to fake it out in town, while you and the old girl bolted." "Our friend,"
remarked Smith, casting an aggrieved look at the last speaker, "is lamentably
terse. But let us join Mrs. Mackintosh. She will support my remarks, not perhaps
in such chaste diction, but--"

"Oh, shut it off!" interrupted Mr. Spotts. "Come along, Othniel. I guess you're
in this, too." And he led the way into the house. When they entered the private
parlour they found Mrs. Mackintosh and Miss Arminster waiting to receive them,
the old lady with mingled feelings of righteous indignation and amusement at the
ludicrous position in which they were placed, which latter she strove hard to
conceal. "Well, Bishop," she began, as soon as Banborough was fairly in the
room, "you've carried off an innocent and unsuspecting young lady in a Black
Maria, imprisoned an officer of the law, deceived his agents, reduced two of the
members of our company to walking the streets, forced us to consort with thieves
and criminals," pointing to the bland form of the Quaker, who had just appeared
in the doorway, "laid us all under the imputation of plotting against our
country, exiled us from our native land, brought me away from New York in my
declining years, with only the clothes I stand up in, and deposited me in a
small room on the third floor of a second-class hotel, which is probably full of
fleas! And now I ask you, sir, in the name of Christian decency, which you're
supposed to represent, and common sense, of which you've very little, what
you're going to do with us?" Banborough sat down suddenly on the nearest
available chair, made a weak attempt at a smile, gave it up, and blurted out:

"Well, I'm blessed if I know! But permit me to decline the declining years," he
murmured gallantly. "I have," continued the lady, with a twinkle in her eye,
"for the past thirty years played blameless parts on the metropolitan stage, and
I'm too old to assume with any degree of success the role of a political
criminal." "Madam," said the author, making a desperate effort to compose
himself, "I'm the first to admit the lack of foresight on my part which has
placed us in this deplorable predicament; but the fact remains that we're
suspected of a serious crime against this Government, and until we can prove
ourselves innocent it's necessary to protect our liberties as best we may. I
fortunately have ample funds, and I can only say that it will be a duty as well
as a privilege to take you all to a place of safety, and keep you there, as my
guests, till happier times." "Hear, hear!" said the tragedian from the back of
the room, while the Quaker settled himself into the most comfortable armchair
with a sigh of contentment. "Very nicely spoken, young man," replied the older
lady, whose suspicions were only partially allayed, "but words aren't deeds, and
Canada, where I'm informed we're to be dumped, is a long way off; and if you
imagine you can go cavorting round the country with a Black Maria for a whole
afternoon without bringing the police down on you, you're vastly mistaken!"
"Thee speaketh words of wisdom, but a full stomach fortifieth a stout heart,"
said Friend Othniel. "Yes," replied Smith, who took this remark to himself. "I
ordered dinner at six, thinking you'd be in then, and if I'm not mistaken it's
here now." And as he spoke the door opened and a waiter entered to lay the
table. Conversation of a private nature was naturally suspended forthwith, and
the members of the A. B. C. Company sat in silence, hungrily eyeing the board.
"Thee mayst lay a place for me, friend," said the Quaker to the waiter, as he
watched the preparations with bland enjoyment. "Did you order any drinks?" asked
Banborough of the tragedian. "No, Bishop, I didn't," replied the latter. "As
you're paying for the show, I thought I'd leave you that privilege." "Order six
soda lemonades," said Banborough to the waiter, adding behind his hand to
Spotts, as he noted the gloom spread over the company: "No liquor to-night. We
need to keep our wits about us." "Stop, friend," came the unctuous tones of the
Quaker, arresting the waiter as he was about to leave the room. "For myself I
never take strong waters, but thee forgettest, Bishop," giving Banborough the
title he had heard the others use, "thee forgettest that our revered friend,"
with a wave of his hand in Mrs. Mackintosh's direction, "hath an affection of
her lungs which requires her to take a brandy and soda for her body's good
before meals. Let it be brought at once!" "Why, you impudent upstart!" gasped
the old lady, as the door closed behind the waiter. "How dare you say I drink!"
"Shoo!" returned Friend Othniel, lapsing from the Quaker into the tramp; "I
ain't orderin' it for youse. I've a throat like a Sahara." Then turning to the
other members of the company, he continued:

"Now seein' as we've a moment alone, and bein' all criminals, I votes we has a
session o' the committee o' ways and means." A chorus of indignant protest arose
from every side. "Youse ain't criminals, eh? What's liberatin' prisoners, an'
stealin' two hosses an' a kerridge, an' the driver's hat an' coat, with a five-
dollar bill in the pocket?" Banborough rose to deny vehemently the last
assertion. "Oh, yes, ther' was," continued the tramp. "I got that." And he
produced a crisp note at the sight of which the Englishman groaned, as he
realised the damning chain of evidence which circumstance was building up around
them. "An' lockin' up officers of the law," Friend Othniel went on, "an' runnin'
off with prisoners, specially a tough like me, one o' your pals, what's wanted
particular." And he winked villainously. "I do not see," began Banborough, who
was fast losing his temper, "that there's any need of discussing the moral
aspect of this affair. You," turning to the tramp, "will have your dinner and
your drink, and a certain sum of money, and you'll then kindly leave us. Though
your nature may be incapable of appreciating the difference between a crime
knowingly committed and one innocently entered into, a difference exists, and
renders further association between us undesirable, to say the least." "Oh, it
does, does it?" said Friend Othniel. "Well, that's where youse blokes is
mistook. This mornin' my dearest ambition was to blow up Madison Square Garden,
but what's that to wreckin' a whole nation? No, Bishop, I'm a political
conspirator from this time on, and I'll stand by yer through thick and thin!
Why, you people ain't no more fitted to run a show o' this sort than a parcel of
three-weeks-old babies. I wouldn't give yer ten hours to land the whole crowd in
jail; but you just trust to me, and I'll see yer safe, if it can be done. I tell
yer, it ain't the fust time I ben in a hurry to view Niagary Falls from the
Canadian side." Just then the door opened, and the waiter entered with the
brandy and soda in a long glass. "Thee mayst put it here, friend, till the lady
is ready to take it," said Othniel, indicating the table at his side. "Nothing
of the kind," snapped Mrs. Mackintosh. "I guess I'm as ready to take it now's I
ever shall be." And she grasped the glass and, setting her face, proceeded to
drain the tumbler to the amusement of the company. "There," she said, wiping her
lips with her handkerchief, as the waiter left the room, "that tasted about as
bad as anything I've had for a long time; but if it had been castor oil, I'd
have drunk every drop rather than that you'd had it." A general laugh greeted
this sally, and the tramp remarked sheepishly that he guessed he'd know it the
next time he ran up against her. Then, waxing serious, he resumed his former
topic. "We ain't got no time to waste in frivolity," he said, "and if we're to
get out of this hole, the sooner we makes our plans the better, and perhaps, as
I know more about this business than youse, I'll do the talking." Receiving the
silent assent of the company, he continued: "I remembers in the days o' my
innocent youth, before I burgled my first watch, a-playin' of a Sunday-school
game, where we went out of the room, and the bloke what teached us put a quarter
somewhere in plain sight, and when we come in again not one on us could find it,
'cause it was just under our noses; which the same is the game I'm proposing to
play." "I think I see what you mean," said Banborough. "I've heard it said that
the destruction of most criminals is their cleverness." "That's just what I'm
a-tryin' to point out," replied the tramp. "The cops gives you the credit of
allus tryin' to do the out-o'-the-way thing, so as to put 'em off the track,
while if yer only acted as yer naturally would if yer hadn't done nothin' to be
cotched for, yer could walk before their eyes and they'd never see yer." "That
sounds all right," said Spotts. "Now what's your advice?" "To go back to New
York," replied the tramp shortly. "But," objected Miss Arminster, "we can't stay
in the United States." "Who said we could?" retorted the tramp. "Don't yer see,
the cops'll reckon on our takin' some train along hereabouts for the North, and
they'll watch all the little stations on the up line, but they won't trouble
'bout the down line, 'cause they know we've left the city. So all we has to do,
after we've had our dinner comfortable-like, is to take a local back to town,
and catch the White Mountain Express for Montreal." "Why the White Mountain
Express?" asked Mrs. Mackintosh. "'Cause it's the longest route," replied the
tramp, "an' they'll reckon on our takin' the shortest. Besides which, we'll
cross the border in the early morning, havin' the baggage, which we ain't got,
examined on arrival." The company expressed hearty approval of the plan, and it
was easy to see, in the case of the ladies at least, that Friend Othniel's
sagacity had won him a much-improved position in their estimation. The waiter
now came bustling in and out of the room, and Mrs. Mackintosh drew Cecil apart
into the embrasure of a window. "You mustn't think I'm too hard on you, young
man," she said, "though I can talk like a house afire when I once get r'iled. I
know you didn't mean to get us into this scrape. You're a good-hearted chap, or
you wouldn't have given us all a breakfast when you didn't need to, and I want
you to understand that I'll stand by you whatever happens. I've taken a real
liking to you, because you can look me straight in the eye, and I know you're
worth a dozen of those chaps one sees hanging round a theatre; and if you behave
yourself nicely, you won't find you've got a better friend than Betsy
Mackintosh." And she squeezed his hand with an honest fervour that many a man
might have envied. Cecil thanked her for her confidence in him, and turned to
have a few words with Miss Arminster, who had been constantly in his mind. When
she had admitted to the Justice of the Peace that she was a married woman, he
felt as if somebody had poured a pitcher of ice-water down his back. Of course
he hardly considered his sentiment for her as serious, but he was at the age
when a young man feels it a personal grievance if he discovers that a pretty
girl is married. Indeed, the fact that the little actress had been so blind to
her own interests as not to keep her heart and hand free till he came along
first caused him to realise how hard he was hit. "I do hope you've not been too
much fatigued?" he said, sitting down beside her. "Oh, you mustn't bother about
that," she replied, raising her eyes to his in a decidedly disconcerting manner.
"I'm afraid you must have thought me very selfish and ungrateful for seeming to
care so much about my own appearance and so little about all you've done for
me." "Oh, don't speak of that," he protested. "But I must speak of it," she
insisted. "I can't begin to tell you how I appreciated it. It was plucky and
just splendid, and some day or other I want you to take me out driving again, in
another sort of trap. You're the best whip I ever knew." He flushed under her
praise, and began to say pretty things which he had better have omitted; but she
presently became absent-minded in the face of his attentions, and interpreting
this as an unfavourable sign, he ventured to ask her why she was so pensive.
"I'm afraid you must think me awfully rude," she said, "and really I've listened
to all the nice things you've been saying, half of which I don't deserve, but
the fact is, this place, and even this very room, are full of sweet associations
for me. It was in that little church, just across the road, that I was married
four years ago." "But I thought," he began, "that the Justice of the Peace said
that he married you." "So he did," she returned softly, "but that was different
--it was later." "Eh? What!" he said, "later?" "Yes," she replied dreamily, not
noticing the interruption. "But it was here that the few sweet days of my first
honeymoon were passed. 'Twas here I became the bride of the only man I've ever
loved, the bride of--"

"Hist!" cried the tramp, who had been looking out of the window. "The house is
watched!" And with this announcement Banborough's tete-a-tete came to an abrupt
close. "Are you sure?" cried Spotts. "Positive. There are three cops fooling
round in front now." "What shall we do?" cried Smith. "Git," rejoined the tramp.
"But how?" queried Banborough. "Oh, I'll fix that all right," said the Quaker.
"I bagged a plated tea-service here five years ago, and if they ain't changed
the arrangements of the house, this side door leads into an unused passage,
which, barrin' the climbin' of a picket fence, is very handy for escape." "But
how about the waiter?" suggested Mrs. Mackintosh, who was always practical.
"Right you are," said Friend Othniel. "We'll lock the door before we get out.
They'll waste time enough over trying to open it, to give us a chance." To speak
was to act, and the tramp softly turned the key and slipped it into his pocket.
"As a memento," he said. "It's all I'm likely to git. They don't even use plate
now." And he fingered the spoons and forks on the table regretfully. "Come,"
said Spotts shortly. "We've no time to lose." "Look here," said Banborough to
the company, "I may be a criminal, but I'm not a sneak, and I don't order meals
and apartments without paying for them. How much ought I to leave behind?"
Spotts laughed. "If you put it that way, I guess ten dollars'll cover it," he
said. The Englishman threw a bill on the table. "Now," cried Smith, "let's be
off!" "Out this way," said the tramp, opening a side door. "You others go first,
and I'll wait here till I sees you're all safe." "Not if I know it," said Cecil.
"You go first, or you'll get kicked." The tramp looked longingly at the crisp
note, and led the way, remarking:

"Thee castest thy pearls before swine, friend." "Ah, that's just what I'm trying
to avoid," said Banborough cheerfully, bringing up the rear. CHAPTER VI. IN
WHICH THE BISHOP OF BLANFORD RECEIVES A BLACK EYE. "The Bishop of Blanford!"
announced the page, as he threw open the door of Sir Joseph Westmoreland's
private consulting-room. Sir Joseph came forward to meet his distinguished
patient, and said a few tactful words about having long known his Lordship by
reputation. The Bishop smiled amiably, and surveyed the great London physician
through his glasses. The two men were of thoroughly opposite types: Sir Joseph
tall, thin, wiry, his high forehead and piercing blue eye proclaiming a powerful
mind well trained for the purposes of science; the Bishop short and broad of
stature, with an amiable, rounded, ruddy face, and the low forehead which is
typical of a complacent dogmatism. An ecclesiastic had come to humbug a man of
science. Could he do it? Not really, he told himself; but then Sir Joseph was so
courteous. "I ventured to consult you," said his Lordship, in reply to the
physician's questions, "because I feel the need of rest, absolute rest. The
duties of my diocese are so onerous--and--er--in short--you understand." "Quite
so, quite so," said Sir Joseph, who understood that there was nothing whatever
the matter with his patient. "To be entirely alone," continued the Bishop, "for
a space of time, without any distractions--not even letters." "Most certainly
not letters, your Lordship." "How wonderful you men of science are!" murmured
the ecclesiastic. "You understand me exactly. Now if I could have six weeks--or
even a month." "A month, I should say," replied Sir Joseph. "After that you
might begin to receive your correspondence." "Yes, a month would do--that is--er
--where would you advise me to go?" "What climate generally suits you best?" "I
--er--was thinking of Scotland." "In May?" queried the physician. "A friend
would lend me his country place--and I--er--should be so entirely alone." "Quite
so. Nothing could be better," replied his adviser, who, like all men who have
risen in their profession, had attained an infinite knowledge of human nature.
"And you will be so kind as to write me a note, stating your opinion--about the
rest--and--er--immunity from letters--and all that," said the Bishop, depositing
with studied thoughtlessness a double fee on the table, "for the benefit of my--
my family. She is--they are--I mean--that is, she might not realise the
importance of absolute rest, and"--as a brilliant thought occurred to him--"and
you'll give me a prescription." "Certainly," said Sir Joseph. "I'll do both
now." "Thanks," murmured the Bishop, and, receiving the precious documents, he
took his leave. The great physician's letter he put carefully in an inside
pocket; the prescription he never remembered to get filled. "A month," he said
to himself; "that ought to be time enough." And he hailed a cab, and driving
promptly to the nearest American steamship office, he engaged a passage
forthwith. "I wonder what Sir Joseph thought about it," he meditated, as he paid
for his ticket. In this respect, however, he did his adviser an injustice. Sir
Joseph never thought about it at all. It was not part of his profession. *
*       *       *       *

Most people would have united in saying that the Bishop of Blanford was an
exceedingly fortunate man. No one was possessed of an estate boasting fairer
lawns or more noble beeches, and the palace was a singularly successful
combination of ecclesiastical antiquity and nineteenth-century comfort. The
cathedral was a gem, and its boy choir the despair of three neighbouring sees,
while, owing to a certain amount of worldly wisdom on the part of former
investors of the revenues, the bishopric was among the most handsomely endowed
in England. Yet his Lordship was not happy. All his life long there had been a
blot upon his enjoyment, and that blot was his sister, Miss Matilda Banborough.
Miss Matilda was blatantly good, an intolerant virtue that accounted for
multitudes of sins in other people. Her one ambition was to bring up the Bishop
in the way she thought he should go, and hitherto she had been wonderfully
successful. All through his married life she had resided at the palace and been
the ruling power, and when his wife had died twenty years before, snuffed out by
the cold austerity of the Bishop's sister and the ecclesiastical monotony of
Blanford, Miss Matilda had assumed the reins of power, and had never laid them
down. The Bishop's wife had been a weak, amiable woman, and her last conscious
request was to be buried in the sunlight, but her sister-in-law remarked that
"her mind must have been wandering, for though Sarah was vacillating, she was
never sacrilegious." So they buried her in the shadiest corner of the cloisters,
and put up a memorial brass setting forth all the virtues for which she was not
particularly noted, and entirely omitting to mention her saving grace of
patience under great provocation. Since that time the Bishop's son, Cecil, had
been a bone of contention at Blanford. His aunt had attempted to apply the same
rigorous treatment to him that had been meted out to his father; but the lad,
whose spirit had not been broken, refused to submit. At first, in his boyhood
days, his feeling was chiefly one of awe of Miss Matilda, who always seemed to
be interfering with his pleasure, and who made the Sabbath anything but a day of
peace for the restless child. Then came long terms at school, with vacations to
which he never looked forward, and then four years at the university, when the
periods spent at Blanford became more dreaded. Cecil tried bringing home
friends, but there were too many restrictions. So, after graduation, he drifted
off to London, where his aunt prophesied speedy damnation for him, and never
quite forgave him because he did not achieve it. During these years his visits
to the palace became fewer and fewer. Then he wrote his novel, which proved the
breaking-point, for Miss Matilda forced his good-natured, easy-going father to
protest against its publication in England, and the young man, in impatient
scorn, had shaken the dust of his native country from his feet and departed to
the United States, bearing his manuscript with him. That was a year ago, and
Cecil had never written once. His publishers would not give his address, and if
he received the letters sent through their agency, he never answered them. His
father pined for him. His aunt waxed spiteful, and so firm was her domination
over the Bishop that he never dared tell her of his secretly formed plan of
going to America to find his son. Hence his visit to the great London physician.
The little plot worked out better than he could have hoped. Sir Joseph's letter
proved convincing, for Miss Matilda had a holy awe of constituted authority, and
would no more have thought of disobeying its injunctions than she would of
saying her prayers backwards. His Lordship accordingly went to London, and
disappeared for a month--ostensibly to Scotland, in reality to America; and no
one on the Allan liner suspected for a moment that the little man in civilian's
clothes, whose name appeared on the passenger-list as Mr. Banborough, was the
Bishop of Blanford. His thirty days of grace allowed him but two weeks in the
States, and here fortune seemed to have deserted him, for, on his arrival, he
learned that his son had gone South. A wild-goose chase to Washington consumed
much valuable time, and, with only forty-eight hours to spare, he arrived at
Cecil's quarters in New York on the day when that young gentleman was madly
driving a Black Maria out of the city. Discouraged and disheartened at his lack
of success, the Bishop took a train for Montreal, and found himself, about ten
o'clock on that evening, owing to faulty orders and a misplaced switch, stranded
at a little station just on the dividing line between Canada and the United
States. "And when can I proceed on my journey to Montreal?" he queried of the
station-master. "Sure I don't know," responded that individual briefly. "We're
bound to get things cleared for the White Mountain Express if possible." "And
when is it due?" asked his Lordship. "Eleven forty-five A.M., if she's on time."
"I think," said the Bishop, "that I'll remain for the night, and go on at a more
seasonable hour to-morrow. Is there any one here who can put me up?" The
station-master scratched his head in perplexity, glancing off to the horizon
where glimmered a few lights from scattered farmhouses. "I dunno what to say,"
he replied. "I reckon Deacon Perkins would have put you up," pointing to the
nearest light, some mile and a half distant, which at that moment disappeared,
"but," added the official, "it looks as if he'd gone to bed. Folks don't stay up
late round here. There ain't much to do." "But," protested his Lordship,
"there's a story over this office. Surely you can arrange something for me."
"Well, you see it's this way," said the man. "There's two police officers and a
journalist has reserved it for to-night, 'cause they's on the lookout for a
batch of prisoners 'scaping to Canada. But if so be's you wouldn't mind sleeping
in the refreshment-room, I could let you have a mattress, and make you up a tidy
bed under the bar." The Bishop reflected that, though such quarters were hardly
in keeping with the dignity of an episcopal prince, they were better than
nothing, and as he was travelling incognito it did not much matter. So he
cheerfully accepted, and going out on the platform took a seat on the narrow
wooden bench that ran along the front of the station, and lighted a cigar to
while away the time till the preparations for his retirement were completed. It
was pitch-dark outside, and the presence of three glimmering points of light
were the only indication of any other occupants of the bench. But he rightly
conjectured that the smokers were the policemen and the journalist of whom he
had heard, and, having nothing better to do, he entered into conversation with
them. "Oh, yes," said Marchmont, for it was none other, "we've got a big job on
hand to-night, sir, if we pull it off." "Is it uncertain, then?" asked the
Bishop. "Well, of course we don't know which way they're coming. There was a
sensational escape of a lot of Spanish spies from New York this noon. When I
left we only knew they'd gone North. Since then they've been heard of near the
Hudson River. Of course it's practically certain they'll make for Montreal, as
it's the nearest point at which they have a consul, and my knowledge of human
nature leads me to think they'll take the most indirect route; so I came on here
by the first train, and if we can catch them when the Express comes through to-
night, it'll be a great scoop, and certain promotion for me." "Who compose the
party?" asked his Lordship. "The whole thing seems to be rather mysterious,"
said the journalist. "There's a woman conspirator in it, and one or two men, but
the identity of the leader, the man who planned the rescue and had the
unparalleled audacity to represent himself as one of our reporters, is quite
unknown to the police." "But you?" said the Bishop. "Oh, I," replied Marchmont,
"of course I could hazard a guess as to his identity." And putting his hand
before his mouth, so that his two companions should not hear his words, he
added, with a tone of triumph in his voice: "There's not the remotest doubt in
my mind that the young man who ran off with the Black Maria was none other than
the Secretary of the Spanish Legation." "Ah," said his Lordship, who was getting
bored, "very interesting, I'm sure. I think I'll turn in now. Good-night." And a
few minutes later he was safely ensconced under the bar and in the land of
dreams, where Miss Matilda and a prison-van figured conspicuously. After an
interval of time, the Bishop was sleepily conscious of the arrival of a train,
accompanied by a certain amount of excitement, but it was not till several hours
later, when dawn was just beginning to break, that he was rudely awakened by
some one attempting to appropriate his resting-place. At the same moment he
became conscious that a considerable uproar was going on in the station, and a
voice from above, which he recognised as the journalist's, called out:

"Say! One of that gang's in the bar! I saw him come up to the door as I was
lying in bed!" Before the Bishop, however, became sufficiently wide awake to
assimilate thoroughly these astonishing facts, the intruder, who was grotesquely
armed with a can of hot coffee and a loaf of bread, deposited his burdens, and
falling upon the recumbent ecclesiastic, proceeded to sit upon his head, forcing
his face into the pillow, and rendering it impossible for him to utter a single
sound. The half light and the suddenness of the attack had not permitted his
Lordship to see the features of his aggressor. He had, however, no intention of
submitting tamely to such an unpardonable outrage; and when the station-master
and the two policemen, unaware of the proximity of the object of their pursuit,
had rushed through the room and out at the back door, and the stranger,
releasing the Bishop, was preparing to fly also, his Lordship, forgetful of the
professions of peace which his calling assumed, smote the intruder lustily in
the ribs. He received in return a smashing blow in the eye which made him see a
multitude of stars, and before he could recover himself the stranger had seized
the coffee and the loaf and dashed through to the front of the station. The
Bishop staggered to his feet, groping blindly about, while he heard the voice of
the journalist, who was leaning over the banisters in night attire, calling
vociferously to his companions that the man was escaping by the front. "Did he
hurt you?" he asked of the Bishop. "Yes," replied his Lordship, still blinded by
the force of the blow. "But he got as good as he gave. I didn't have four years
of athletics at the 'varsity for nothing." "Oh, they're sure to catch him," said
the journalist

"I hope so," cried the Bishop, "for he richly deserves it." It is probable,
however, that his Lordship would have modified his desire for vengeance had he
known that his aggressor was his own son. CHAPTER VII. IN WHICH A LINE IS DRAWN
AND CROSSED. "Say, are you asleep?" came the low voice of the tramp at the side
of Banborough's berth in the early hours of the morning. The speaker stood in
the aisle of the sleeper and was bending over him, half dressed, the contrast
between the sleek outer garments of the Quaker and the rough underwear of the
tramp giving him a most grotesque appearance. "Eh? what?" said Cecil, rousing
himself, and noting, as he did so, that it was still dark. A moment later he was
fully awake, saying, as he sat up in his bunk: "Is anything the matter?" "I'm
afraid so. We've stopped here more'n ten minutes already, and we're scheduled to
run through." "Well, what of it?" said the Englishman, somewhat testily, for he
was very weary, and resented having his rest broken. "I suppose it's only a hot
box." "Hot box be blowed! It's us they're after. If you looks round the corner
of your curtain, you can see the cops on the platform." Cecil did as he was
bidden, and, drawing back hastily, said:

"You're right. I'm afraid the game is up. Where are we, anyway?" "If this is the
station I take it to be, we're just on the line between the two countries. But
whether our car's in Canady or the States is more'n I can tell." "Is there
anything to be done?" asked Banborough, turning to Smith and Spotts, who at this
moment quietly joined the Quaker at the Englishman's bedside. "Plenty," replied
Spotts. "It's only a question of going North. Ten feet may mean the difference
between a prison and the 'Windsor.'" "Well, what shall we do?" "Are you
dressed?" "All but my boots and coat," answered Cecil. "I'm not enough of a
gymnast to disrobe in a space six feet by two, and besides I thought something
of this sort might occur." "Well, get into your boots, then, and don't make any
more noise than necessary," said Spotts. "The ladies must be ready by this time.
You were called last." "Are you going to make a bolt for it?" queried
Banborough, as he put one foot out of bed. "Sh!" returned Spotts. "Not so loud!
The officials out there on the platform are not sure that we're on board. My
suggestion that Mrs. Mackintosh should buy the tickets was a lucky move, as she
was not known. I'm going to pull the bell-cord as a sign to start, in the hopes
that the engineer will get going before the conductor has time to reverse the
signal, which means we'll run to the next station. If we don't succeed in
pulling out, we'll just have to jump off and sprint for it." "Go ahead," said
Banborough. "I'll have my boots on by the time I want them." The actor took a
cautious look round the sleeper. Quiet reigned, except for their own little
party, who were by this time all gathered together, the ladies having joined
them. "Now!" said Friend Othniel. And Spotts, reaching up, gave two sharp jerks
to the cord which swung from the centre of the car. Instantly the air-brakes
were relaxed, the engine gave forth a series of mighty exhausts, the great
driving-wheels spun round for a second on the rails, then caught their grip, and
the train began to move out of the station. A perfect pandemonium at once arose
without. Shouts, gesticulations, and the waving of a multitude of lights, but
the train still kept on moving, and the last car, in which the fugitives were,
was sweeping past the station building, when the conductor, capless, but lantern
in hand, emerged from the ticket-office and sprang for the rear platform of the
train. A second later the quick jerk of the bell-cord and an answering whistle
from the engine told them that he had succeeded in boarding the train and
signalling it to stop. The Quaker, forgetful of his cloth, swore lustily. "Come
on!" cried Spotts, "we'll have to run for it. They'll back into the station in a
minute, and then we're done for." And suiting the action to the word, he rushed
down the car towards the front of the train. The rest followed him with the best
speed they could muster, falling over boxes and bundles, getting entangled in
stray shoes, and running foul of swinging portieres. Fortunately the cars were
vestibuled, so the platforms offered no impediment. The train seemed absolutely
interminable, for as they dashed through sleeper after sleeper, one more always
appeared ahead, and Banborough could not help feeling as he ran, hatless and in
his shirt-sleeves, with his coat under his arm and one shoe-string untied, that
the whole thing must after all be some wildly improbable dream from which he
would awake in due course. Now they felt the train stand still and then begin
slowly to move backwards, which only hastened their flight. But there is an end
to everything, and presently the last sleeper had been passed through, and they
emerged, hot and breathless, into the baggage-car, immediately behind the
engine. Here for the first time they found an open door, the vestibules having
all been tightly closed. Spotts, who led the way, wasted no time in explanation,
but making one dash at the burly baggage-master who confronted him, gave him a
blow that sent him flying backwards. At the same instant he managed to trip up
his assistant, causing the two men to come down on the floor together, bringing
with them in their fall two bicycles and half a dozen crates of eggs. Grasping
any light luggage he could seize, Friend Othniel added this to the heap, while
Spotts, throwing open the great door in the side of the car, cried:

"Jump for all you're worth!" Smith stood cowering on the edge of the door-sill,
little relishing the prospect of a wild leap into the night. But the Quaker, who
had no time to waste on arguments, smashed down the top bicycle with one hand,
thus placing his two opponents on their backs on the floor, and swinging round
at the same moment, delivered a kick to the tragedian which sent him flying into
outer darkness after the manner of a spread eagle. The train was only just
moving, and Spotts sprang quickly to the ground, and, running alongside the car,
called to Miss Arminster to jump into his arms, which she promptly did. Putting
her to one side out of the reach of the train, he ran forward to receive Mrs.
Mackintosh; but that good lady, being unaccustomed to such acrobatic feats, and
arriving with more force than precision, completely bowled him over, and they
went flying into space together. Banborough and Friend Othniel followed almost
immediately, and, both trying to get out of the door at the same time, collided
with considerable force, and performed a series of somersaults, landing with
safety, but emphasis, in a potato-patch. As the engine swept by them, Cecil sat
up and surveyed the scene. It certainly was an unusual situation, and the half-
light of the early morning only served to make their attitudes the more
grotesque. The party was scattered at large over the field in question. Smith,
on one knee, was rubbing the bruised portions of his body. Miss Arminster, who
had landed safely on her feet, was standing with both hands clasped to her head,
an attitude suggesting concussion of the brain, but which in reality betokened
nothing more dreadful than an utter disarrangement of her hair. Spotts had
assumed an unconventional attitude at her feet, while the Quaker, face down,
with hands and legs outspread, seemed to be trying to swim due north. Directly
opposite the Englishman, seated erect and prim on what had once been a hill of
potatoes, her bonnet perched rakishly on one ear, and her grey toupee partially
disarranged, hanging with its sustaining hairpins over her eyes, was Mrs.
Mackintosh, firmly grasping in one hand her green silk parasol which she had
never relinquished. As Banborough met her gaze, she demanded sternly:

"What next, young man, I should like to know?" "Really, Mrs. Mackintosh," he
replied, "if for no other reason, you ought to be deeply indebted to me as a
purveyor of new sensations." "This is not a time for levity, sir," remarked that
lady sternly, dropping her parasol and hastily restoring her toupee to its
original position, "and I consider it perfectly disgraceful that you should
cause a lady of my character to be arrested in a potato-patch at four o'clock in
the morning!" "That's just what I've been endeavouring to prevent," he said. "I
believe this to be Canada." "Then Canada's a very poor sort of a country," she
replied snappishly. The others now approached them, and all eyes were turned to
the railroad station a few hundred yards distant, which was alive with bobbing
lanterns. Presently a cluster of lights detached itself from the rest and came
towards them. "Do you think they're going to arrest us?" asked Miss Arminster
timidly. "Don't you be afraid, miss," returned Friend Othniel. "You just let me
run this circus, and I'll get you out all right and no mistake." The party now
came up to them. It consisted of the station-master, the conductor, several
trainmen, and the two policemen. "Here!" said the conductor. "What did you mean
by pulling the cord and starting the train?" "Because we was anxious to see the
beauties of Canady," replied the tramp. "Ah, I thought as much," said one of the
policemen. "I am afraid," added the other, "we shall be obliged to persuade you
and your party to stay in the United States for a while. You may consider
yourselves under arrest." "Thank yer," said the tramp sweetly. "So, to save
trouble," continued the officer, "you might as well come back quietly with us to
the station." "Yah!" retorted the tramp. "'Will yer walk into my parlour?' said
the spider to the fly. I knows that game, and I guess the climate o' Canady
suits my constitution." "Nonsense!" replied the policeman. "You aren't over the
border by about two miles." "Oh, ain't we?" said the tramp. "Just oblige me,
then, by putting them bracelets which I sees hangin' out o' your pocket on my
wrists." And he held out his hands. The policeman looked sheepish, whispered
something to his companion, and presently they turned their backs on the party
and walked away in the direction of the station. "We's so stuck on this piece o'
land," called Friend Othniel after them, "that we thinks o' farmin' it
permanently. Come back and spend Christmas with us, won't yer?" The officers did
not deign to notice these remarks, and a few moments later the train swept by
them on its way to Montreal, the baggage-master and his assistant giving their
views on the party in general as they passed. The day now really began to break
in earnest, bringing with it a cold, damp chill, which seemed to penetrate to
their very marrow. Spotts took off his coat and wrapped it around the shivering
Violet--an act of chivalry which made Banborough curse his own thoughtlessness.
But Spotts's endeavours to promote the comfort of the company did not end here.
He roused Friend Othniel into action, and succeeded in collecting a little
stubble and underbrush, and with the aid of a few matches they made an apology
for a fire, round which the forlorn party huddled. But, damp with the early
dews, the brush gave out more smoke than flame, only serving to emphasize their
discomfort. The increasing light showed them something of their surroundings. At
distances varying from a mile to a mile and a half a few dilapidated dwellings
peeped out of a fringe of woods. Everything else was pine-swamp, with the
exception of the one small field of potatoes in which they were encamped, and
which stood out as an oasis in the wilderness. Through the midst of the
landscape straggled a muddy road, hopelessly impassable for foot-travellers.
Certainly the outlook was not cheering. It was therefore with a feeling of
positive relief that they perceived shambling towards them the uncouth figure of
the station-master. He paused on the edge of the patch, with one hand embedded
in his shock of hair, and the other grasping a large piece of chalk, and
surveyed the party critically. "Say," he began after a few moments' silence,
"them's my potatoes you're a-settin' on." The tramp growled something
unintelligible, and the others vouchsafed no reply whatsoever. "I guess it must
be purty damp out in that field," continued the station-master, "specially for
the ladies, and I thought as how I'd let yer know as I was a-makin' some coffee
over to the station, and yer could come and get it if yer liked." "Yes, and get
arrested into the bargain," said Spotts. "I thought of that," replied the man,
"and so I've drawed a line onto the platform with this piece of chalk, jest
where the boundary be, and so long as yer stays to the northard of it yer can't
be ketched." "How are we to know that that is just the boundary?" asked
Banborough. "'Pears to me you're mighty 'spicious. Anyhow, thar's the line and
thar's the coffee. Yer can take it or leave it, jest as yer likes." "I'd make it
worth your while to bring it to us down here," said Cecil. "Humph!" returned the
maker of beverages. "I don't go totin' coffee all round the country, and I'd
like to remind yer as potatoes ain't eggs and don't need no hatchin', so the
sooner you gets through settin' on 'em the better I'll be pleased." And turning
his back he slouched away to the station. "What do you think about it?" said
Banborough to Spotts. "I think it's a plan," replied the actor. "A New England
farmer never misses a chance of making a penny when he can do so, and that
fellow would have been glad enough to sell his coffee to us at a fancy price
anywhere we chose to drink it if he hadn't been offered more to entice us up to
the station." "Well, I'm not going to pass the rest of my days on top of a
potato-hill," said Mrs. Mackintosh spitefully. "I'm so stiff now I can hardly
move." "Yes, I don't think there's much to wait for," agreed Cecil. "But where
shall we go?" "To the next station, I guess," said the tramp. "But in Canady
that's as likely to be thirteen miles as it is two, and this track ain't
ballasted for a walking-tour." The fair Violet heaved a deep sigh. "What is it?"
asked Banborough anxiously. "Don't you feel well?" "I do feel a little faint,"
she replied, "but I dare say I'll be better in a minute. I shouldn't have
sighed, only I was thinking what an old wretch that station-master is, and how
good that coffee would have tasted." "You shall have some," he said, determined
not to be outdone again by Spotts, "and I'll get it for you myself." "No, no!"
she protested. "I didn't mean that. I shouldn't have said it. I wouldn't have
you go for worlds. You'd surely be arrested." "Nonsense!" he replied. "I think I
can manage it and get back safely, and you and Mrs. Mackintosh must have
something sustaining, for you've a long walk before you." And, in spite of all
remonstrances, he prepared to set out on his delicate and dangerous mission.
"What's your plan?" asked Friend Othniel, immensely interested now there was a
chance of an adventure. "I'm going to crawl along in the dry ditch beside the
railroad track till I get up to the station, and then trust to luck. I used to
be able to do a hundred yards in pretty decent time in my Oxford days, and if I
can get into the refreshment-room without being seen, I don't think they'll
catch me." "Well, good luck to yer," said the tramp, "and if yer should come
across a hunk of pumpkin pie, don't forget your friend Othniel." Banborough
slipped off his overcoat, and donning a pair of heavy dogskin gloves, the
property of the driver of the Black Maria, which the tramp produced, he watched
his opportunity when no one was in sight at the station, and, cautioning the
rest of the party not to betray by their actions that anything unusual was going
on, stole across the open field and, dropping into the shallow ditch, began his
perilous journey. Within three feet of the edge of the platform all means of
concealment ceased; but feeling that a bold course was the only one which gave
any hope of success, Cecil rose quickly, and, slipping across the exposed place
in an instant, glided into the great woodshed which in that part of the world,
where coal is expensive, forms an important adjunct to every station. He felt
himself practically secure here, as no one was likely to come for logs so early
in the morning; and after waiting for a few moments to make certain that his
presence had not been discovered, he threw himself down on his face, and,
crawling noiselessly on all-fours across the twenty feet of open platform which
intervened between the woodshed and the main building, achieved the precarious
shelter afforded by the side wall of the house. He then wormed himself forward
till he was close to the front corner; and here his patient efforts were at last
rewarded, for he heard a few scraps of a conversation which, had he been in a
less dangerous position, would have afforded him infinite amusement. "I tell you
what it is," came the strident voice of the station-master. "It ain't no mortal
manner of use. Why, they spotted me to onct; said how was they to know I drawed
the line correct." "Ha!" said one of the policemen. "Couldn't you go out and
dicker with them some more?" "Nope," rejoined the other shortly. "And there's
that whole tin o' coffee in the back room goin' to waste, and I guess they'd
have paid more'n a dollar for it." "Where's Mr. Marchmont?" asked the second
speaker, a remark which caused Banborough considerable surprise. "He's been
keepin' out o' the way o' them Spaniards," said the station-master, "lest they
should get a sight of him, 'cause he may have to shadow 'em in Canady, and he
don't want 'em to get on to who he is. He's gone upstairs now to get a snooze,
an' that's where I'm goin', too. There ain't no train for three hours, and I've
had enough o' this durned foolishness." "What's that?" cried the policeman, as a
sharp sound smote their ears. "Tain't nothin' but the back door slammin',"
replied the other. "I must ha' forgot to latch it. The wind's riz a bit." "Yes,"
said the officer, "and it's going to rain presently." "I guess I'd better go and
shet that door." "No, you stay here; I want to talk to you. We'll let them get
thoroughly drenched, and you can offer them the hospitality of the woodshed.
Maybe we could alter the boundary-line a few feet in the interests of justice."
Banborough waited to hear no more, but, drawing softly back, sprang to his feet
and ran noiselessly along the side of the house and round to the unlatched door
behind. Now, if ever, was his chance. He dashed into a room which seemed to be a
combination of kitchen and bar, but on the stove stood a steaming tin can of
savoury coffee, while among the bottles on the shelf, just showing out of its
paper wrappings, was a goodly loaf of white bread. Had he left well alone, and
been satisfied with the coffee, he would have been all right; but the bread
tempted him, and to obtain possession of it he must go behind the bar. This he
hastened to do, unlatching the little swinging gate at the end, when a scuffling
sound from the room above gave place to heavy foot-falls on the boards, and a
moment later Marchmont called down the stairs which evidently led into the front
room:

"Say! One of that gang's in the bar! I saw him come up to the door as I was
lying in bed!" A bit of information which was instantly followed by a clatter of
chairs on the front platform. Wedged in behind the bar, Banborough felt himself
trapped. But a happy inspiration seizing him, he possessed himself of the can of
coffee and, with the loaf of bread in his other hand, crawled under the
protecting shelf, while just at that moment a particularly strong gust of wind
blew the unlatched door wide open, banging it back against the wall. To his
intense astonishment, Cecil found his hiding-place already occupied by the
recumbent and sleeping form of a man, and, jumping to the conclusion that he
must be either a policeman or a detective, he promptly sat upon his head with a
view to suppressing any inopportune remarks. A second later three men rushed
into the room, and Banborough held his breath. But luck was with him, for one
glance at the empty stove and the open door satisfied the station-master, who
cried:

"Those fellows has bolted with the coffee!" and dashed out at the back, followed
by the policemen. In a second Cecil was up and out of the bar, but not before he
had received a smashing blow in the ribs from the stranger he had so rudely
awakened. He promptly struck out in return, and from the sputtering and
thrashing sounds which emanated from under the shelf he judged that his blow had
gone home. Snatching up the coffee and the bread, he dashed through to the front
of the house, and, emerging on the platform, saw a sight which filled his heart
with joy. On the track stood one of those little flat cars, employed by section-
men, which is propelled by means of a wheel and crank in the centre turned by
hand, on the same principle as a velocipede. He sprang upon it, deposited his
precious burden, and began turning the crank with feverish energy. To his joy,
the car at once started forward, and under his well-directed pressure went
rattling out of the station, shooting by his three astonished pursuers as they
rounded the corner of the woodshed. Two minutes later he arrived in triumph at
the potato-patch, being warmly welcomed by his admiring companions, who
forthwith fell to and made a satisfying, if frugal, meal. Just as they were
finishing, the station-master came up, and, being rendered thoroughly amiable by
a liberal recompense for the stolen viands, so far forgot himself, in his
appreciation of Banborough's pluck, as to admit that there was no objection to
their taking the flat car on to the next station, provided they could square it
with the superintendent on arrival, as there were no trains due either way. "How
far is the next station?" asked Cecil, as the party clambered on to the car.
"About twelve miles," said Miss Arminster. "Do you know it?" asked Banborough,
still glowing under her praises of his prowess. "Oh, yes," she replied softly.
"I was married there last June." The Englishman, muttering something under his
breath, seized the handles and, giving them a vicious turn, sent the car
spinning northwards. CHAPTER VIII. IN WHICH A LOCKET IS ACCEPTED AND A RING
REFUSED. Something over a week after the events narrated in the last chapter,
Banborough was lounging in the office of the Windsor Hotel at Montreal. The
course of events had run more smoothly for the party since the day they arrived
in the city, weary and travel-stained with their adventurous trip. Montreal in
general, and the manager of the Windsor in particular, were accustomed to see
travellers from the States appear in all sorts of garbs and all kinds of
conditions incident to a hasty departure, so their coming occasioned little
comment; and as Cecil never did things by halves, they were soon rehabilitated
and installed in the best apartments the hotel could offer. The various members
of the party, after the first excitement was over, had relapsed into a listless
existence, which, however, was destined to be rudely disturbed, for while the
Englishman's thoughts were wandering in anything but a practical direction, he
was aroused from his reverie by a well-known voice, and, turning, found himself
face to face with Marchmont. "Well, who on earth would have thought of seeing
you here?" exclaimed the journalist. "Have you fled to Canada to escape being
lionised?" "No," said Banborough cautiously, "not exactly for that reason." "We
couldn't imagine what had become of you," continued his friend. "You're the hero
of the hour in New York, I can tell you, and 'The Purple Kangaroo' is achieving
the greatest success of the decade." "Oh, confound 'The Purple Kangaroo--'!"
"That's right; run it down. Your modesty becomes you. But seriously, old man,
let me congratulate you. You must be making heaps out of it." "Let's talk about
something else," said Banborough wearily, for he was heartily sick of his
unfortunate novel. "You ask me why I'm here. I'll return the compliment. Why are
you?" "Why," returned Marchmont, "you're partially to blame for it, you know.
I'm after those Spanish conspirators. Of course you've heard the story?" "No,"
said Banborough. "I haven't been in town for a fortnight. What is it?" "Well, we
arrested a lovely senorita on Fourteenth Street who was using the title of your
novel as a password. I can tell you confidentially that there's no doubt that
she's one of the cleverest and most unscrupulous female spies in the Spanish
secret service; and while they were deciding where to take her, a stranger, who
we're certain was one of the Secretaries of their Legation, eloped with her,
Black Maria and all, with the recklessness of a true hidalgo. They were joined
by a band outside the city, where they overcame a Justice of the Peace who
arrested them, after a desperate resistance on his part. The story of this
unequal battle was one of the finest bits of bravery we've had for years. "After
dining at a hotel at Yonkers they held up the waiter with revolvers and escaped.
Similar audacities were perpetrated at the boundary-line between the United
States and Canada, and in spite of the most intelligent and valiant efforts on
the part of the police, aided by our own special corps of detectives, they've so
far eluded us. Their leader's said to be a perfect devil, who, as I tell you, is
certainly a Secretary of the Spanish Legation." "How do you know that?" asked
Banborough. "Ah," said Marchmont, looking wise and shaking his head, "the _Daily
Leader_ has private sources of information. I wonder you've not heard anything
of this." "Yes," acquiesced the Englishman, "it _is_ curious, isn't it?" "But,"
continued his friend, "you haven't told me yet why you came to Montreal."
"Well," said Cecil, laughing, "I can at least assure you that my trip here has
been much less eventful than the one you described." "By the way," said the
journalist, "have you seen the last editorial about your book in the _Daily
Leader_?" The Englishman shook his head. "No? Well, here goes." And Marchmont
began to read forthwith:

"'English conservatism has recently received a shock from the scion of Blanford,
and the Bishop's son, in connection with 'The Purple Kangaroo,' has caused the
British lion to hump himself into the hotbed of American politics--'"

"Oh, shut up!" said Cecil, with more force than politeness. "Don't you like it?"
exclaimed the journalist. "There's a column and a half more. I blue-pencilled a
copy and sent it over to your old man." Banborough groaned. "But," continued
Marchmont, "this isn't anything to what we'll do when we've hounded the Dons out
of Canada." "What?" cried the author. "Yes," went on his friend. "We've
complained to your Foreign Office, and within a week every Spanish conspirator
will receive notice to quit Her Majesty's North American colonies on pain of
instant arrest and deportation." Cecil waited to hear no more, but, pleading an
imperative engagement, rushed away to summon the members of his party to a
hurried council of war in their private sitting-room. All were present with the
exception of Miss Arminster, who had gone to spend the day at a convent in the
suburbs, where she had been brought up as a child. After an hour of useless
debating the council ended, as Banborough might have foreseen from the first, in
the party giving up any solution of the problem as hopeless, and putting
themselves unreservedly in his hands to lead them out of their difficulties.
Cecil, who felt himself ill equipped for the role of a Moses, jammed his hat on
his head, lit his pipe, and, thrusting his hands in his pockets, said he was
going out where he could be quiet and think about it. "Going to the Blue
Nunnery, he means," said Smith, laughing, and nudging Spotts. The actor grunted.
Apparently the author's attentions to the fascinating Violet did not meet with
his unqualified approval. An hour later Banborough stood in the grey old garden
of the nunnery, the sister who was his guide silently pointing out to him the
figure of the little actress, whose bright garments were in striking contrast to
the severe simplicity of her surroundings. When the Englishman turned to thank
the nun, she had disappeared, and he and Miss Arminster had the garden to
themselves. She stood with her back to him, bending over some roses, unconscious
of his presence, and for a few moments he remained silent, watching her
unobserved. The ten days which had passed had done much to alter his position
towards her, and he had come to fully realise that he was honestly in love with
this woman. Even the fact of her having been married at Ste. Anne de Beau Pre,
which information he had elicited from her on the occasion of their pilgrimage
to that shrine a few days before, had not served to cool his ardour. Indeed, the
fact that his suit seemed hopeless made him all the more anxious to win her for
his wife. After he had been watching her for some minutes, a subtle intuition
seemed to tell her of his presence, and he approached her as she raised her face
from the roses to greet him. "I came to see you--" he began, and paused, hardly
knowing how to continue. "Am I not then allowed even one holiday?" she asked.
"Is my presence so much of a burden?" he inquired, realising for the first time
the full force of what her statement implied, as a hurried mental review of the
past fortnight showed him that he had scarcely ever been absent from her side.
Indeed, it no longer seemed natural not to be with her. "Oh, I didn't mean to be
rude," she said, "but I do like a day out of the world occasionally. You know,
when I come back here I forget for the time that I've ever lived any other life
than that which is associated with this dear old place." He thought grimly that
a young lady who had been married four times before she was twenty-five must
have to undergo a considerable amount of mental obliteration. "I think you'd
tire of it very soon if you had to live here always," he said. "I'm not sure,"
she replied. "I think--but of course you wouldn't understand that--only, life on
the stage isn't all bright and amusing, and there are times when one simply
longs for a quiet, old-world place like this." "I believe you'd like Blanford,"
he suggested. "I should love it," she assured him. "But what would your father
say to me? I'd probably shock him out of his gaiters--if he wears them. Does
he?" "I suppose so," said Cecil. The fact was that the raiment of the Bishop of
Blanford did not particularly interest him at that moment. He had more important
things to talk about, things that had no connection whatsoever with the
immediate future of the A. B. C. Company. Yet the mention of his father caused
him to stop and think, and thought, in this case, proved fatal to sentiment. He
thrust his hands into his pockets and addressed himself to the more prosaic
topics of life, saying:

"My excuse for intruding on you is that our troubles are by no means over. The
authorities, not content with driving us out of the United States, are preparing
to order us out of Canada as well, and the question of where we are to go is
decidedly perplexing." "Oh, dear!" said the little woman, "I think I'll go into
the convent after all." "That settles the difficulty as far as you're concerned.
Do you think they'd admit me?" "Don't talk nonsense. What do the others say?"
"Oh, they say a good many things, but nothing practical, so I came to you for
advice." "Well, to speak frankly," she replied, "if I were you, I'd drop us all
and run away home. It's much the easiest solution of the difficulty." "Excuse
me," he said. "I'm a gentleman, and besides--"

"Well, what?" "Besides," he continued, thinking it better to be discreet, "I
doubt if I should be welcome. I've a letter from the governor in my pocket,
which I haven't yet had courage to open. I dare say it won't be pleasant
reading; besides which, it's been chasing me round the country for the last five
or six weeks, and must be rather ancient history." "Look at it and see," she
advised. "They may be ready to kill the fatted calf for you, after all." "I'm
afraid they do regard me rather in the light of a prodigal," he admitted.
"However, here goes." And breaking the seal of the envelope, he read the letter
aloud:

"THE PALACE, BLANFORD. "MY DEAR SON:

"Do you realise that it is nearly a year since your Aunt Matilda      and I have
received news of you? This has been a source of great      grief and pain to
both of us, but it has not moved me to anger. It      has rather caused me to
devote such hours as I could spare from      the preparation of my series of
sermons on the miracle of Jonah to      personal introspection, in the endeavour
to discover, if possible,      whether the cause of our estrangement lay in any
defect of my own. "It may be that you achieve a certain degree of spiritual
enlightenment in producing a book entitled 'The Purple Kangaroo.' I hope so,
though I have not read it. Nor do I wholly agree with      your good aunt, who
contends that the title savours too much of      the Apocrypha, and I say
nothing of the undesirable popularity you      seem to have attained in the
United States. I only ask you to come      home. "As a proof of her
reconciliation, your aunt included a copy of      your book in her last mission
box to the Ojibway Indians. I shall      always be glad to receive and make
welcome any of your friends at      the palace, no matter how different their
tastes and principles      may be to my own well-defined course of action. "In
the hope of better things,

"YOUR AFFECTIONATE FATHER." "Of course you'll go," Violet said softly. "Oh, I
don't know about that," he replied. "I do," she returned. "It's your duty. What
a dear old chap he must be!--so thoroughly prosy and honest. I'm sure I should
love him. I know just the sort of man he is. A downright Nonconformist minister
of the midland counties, who was consecrated a Bishop by mistake." Cecil paused
a minute, thinking it over. "How about the others?" he said. "Ah, yes," she
replied, "the others. But perhaps you don't class them as your friends." "Oh, it
isn't that," he answered. "Only I was wondering--"

"What the Bishop would say?" she asked, looking at him with a roguish smile.
"Well, why not take him at his word and find out." "By Jove!" he exclaimed. "I
will! I believe you've hit on the very best possible solution of our difficulty.
The episcopal palace at Blanford is absolutely the last place in the world where
any one would think of looking for a political conspirator, and, by some freak
of fortune, the police are entirely ignorant that I'm in any way connected with
your flight." "Good! then it's settled!" she cried. "And we'll all accompany
you." "Ye-es, only the governor wouldn't go within a hundred yards of a theatre,
and my aunt calls actors children of--I forget whom--some one in the Old
Testament." "Belial," suggested Miss Arminster. "That's it. How did you know?"
"You forget," she said, "I was brought up in a convent." "It'll never do," he
continued, "for them to suspect who you really are." "Are we not actors?" "Of
course. We must have a dress rehearsal at once, and cast you for your parts. But
there's Friend Othniel--"

"Ah, yes," she said. "He's impossible." "We must drop him somehow." "That's
easily managed," she replied. "Pay his hotel bill, and leave him a note with a
nice little cheque in it to be delivered after we've gone." "Then we must get
away quickly, or he'll suspect." "The sooner the better." "I noticed that there
was a ship sailing from Montreal for England this afternoon." "That'll just suit
our purpose," she said. "Friend Othniel told me he was going to walk up Mount
Royal after lunch and wouldn't be back before six." "And you'll really come to
Blanford?" he asked, taking her hand. "Of course," she said. "Why should you
doubt it?" "Because," he replied, "it seems too good to be true. I was thinking,
hoping, that perhaps I might persuade you to come there for good, and never go
away." "Ah," she interrupted him, "you're not going to say that?" "Why not?" he
asked. "Because we've been such friends," she answered, "and it's quite
impossible." "Are you sure?" "Perfectly. And oh, I didn't want you to say it."
"But can't we be friends still?" he insisted. "With all my heart, if you'll
forget this mad dream. It would have been impossible, even if I were free. Your
people would never have accepted me, and I would only have been a drag on you."
"No, no!" he denied vehemently. "There," she said, "we won't talk about it.
You've been one of the best friends I ever had, and--what's in that locket you
wear?" "That?" he replied, touching a little blue-enamelled case that hung from
his watch-chain. "It has nothing more interesting in it at present than a
picture of myself. But I'd hoped--"

"Give it to me, will you," she asked, "in remembrance of to-day?" He detached it
silently from his chain, and, pressing it to his lips, placed it in her hand.
"I'll always wear it," she said. There was an awkward silence for a moment, and
then, pulling himself together, he remarked brusquely:

"I suppose we'd better be starting for town." "I'll join you later," she
replied. "I want to go to mid-day service in the little church next to this
convent. Such a pretty little church. I was married there once." "You were what?
Are you really serious, Miss Arminster?" "Perfectly," she answered, giving him a
bewitching little smile as she tripped out of the garden. PART II. _ENGLAND_.
CHAPTER I. IN WHICH MRS. MACKINTOSH ADMIRES JONAH. "I think, Matilda, that you
must have neglected to put any sugar in my tea," said the Bishop of Blanford,
pushing his cup towards his sister, after tasting the first mouthful. "You're
quite right, Josephus, I did," she replied. "And," continued his Lordship, who,
being near-sighted, was poking about, after the manner of a mole, in the three-
storied brass bird-cage which held the more substantial portion of the repast,
"there doesn't seem to be any cake." "You forget," said Miss Matilda sternly,
"that it's an ember-day." Her brother said nothing, and took a mouthful of the
tea, which, like the morality of the palace, was strong and bitter. But his
ample chest expanded with just the slightest sigh of regret, causing the massive
episcopal cross of gold filigree, set with a single sapphire, which rested
thereon, to rise and fall gently. Miss Matilda's hawklike eye saw and noted this
as the first slight sign of rebellion, and she hastened to mete out justice
swift and stern, saying:

"You remember, Josephus, that there's a special service at the mission church at
five, at which I consider you ought to be present." His Lordship had not
forgotten it, or the circumstance that the afternoon was exceedingly hot, and
that the mission church, which was situated in an outlying slum, was made of
corrugated tin. The palace garden would have been infinitely preferable, and he
knew that had he accepted sugarless tea without a murmur, his chaplain would
have sweltered in his place. As it was, he submitted meekly, and his sister
gazed at him with a satisfied expression of triumph across her bright green tea-
cloth. If Miss Matilda had a weakness, it was for ecclesiastical tea-cloths.
White was reserved for Sundays and feast-days; on ordinary occasions, at this
time of the year, her ritual prescribed green. They were seated in the garden of
the palace, a peaceful Arcadia which it was difficult to realise was only
separated from a dusty and concrete world by a battlemented wall which formed
the horizon. The sky overhead was so blue and cloudless that it might have
formed the background for an Italian landscape, and framed against it was the
massive tower of the cathedral, its silver-greys darkening almost to black, as a
buttress here and there brought it in shadow. Among its pinnacles a few wise old
rooks flapped lazily in the still air, as much a part of their surroundings as
the stately swans that floated on the stream which lapped the foot of the tower,
while on all sides there stretched away a great sweep of that perfect verdure
which only England knows. "It's nearly two months since I last wrote to Cecil,"
said the Bishop, judging it wise to change the trend of the conversation, "and
I've not heard a word." "I'm sure I should be surprised if you had," snapped
Miss Matilda. "And what your sainted Sarah would have felt, had she lived to see
her son's disgraceful career, makes me shudder." The Bishop started to sigh
again. Then, thinking better of it, stopped. He had returned to Blanford from
his rest-cure a week before, and apparently the air of Scotland had not proved
as beneficial as he had expected. "I believe that Cecil will come back to us,"
he said, ignoring his sister's last remark. "I told him that his friends would
be welcome here in future, and I particularly mentioned that you'd put a copy of
his book in your last missionary box." "I hope you didn't neglect to say that I
tore out all the pictures. A more scandalous collection--"

But she never finished her denunciation of the novel, for just at that moment
the Bishop sprang to his feet with a glad cry of "Cecil!" The young man came
running across the lawn to meet his father, seizing him warmly by the hand, and
having administered a dutiful peck to his aunt, turned to introduce the little
group of strangers who had accompanied him. "Father," he said, "these are my
friends. On the strength of your letter I've taken the liberty of asking them to
be my guests as well." "They're very welcome to the palace," said the Bishop.
Cecil turned, and leading the two ladies forward, presented them to his father
and his aunt. Miss Matilda swept them both with a comprehensive glance, and
addressing Mrs. Mackintosh, remarked:

"Your daughter, I presume," indicating Miss Arminster. Whereupon the good lady
coloured violently and denied the fact. "Your niece?" insisted Miss Matilda, who
was an excellent catechist, as generations of unfortunate children could bear
witness. "A young lady whom I'm chaperoning in Europe," replied Mrs. Mackintosh
stiffly, in an effort to be truthful, and at the same time to furnish Violet
with a desirable status in the party. The tragedian was now brought forward.
"Allow me," said Banborough, in pursuance of a prearranged scheme of
action--"allow me to introduce my friend Professor Tybalt Smith. You, father,
are of course acquainted with his scholarly work on monumental brasses." The
Bishop naturally was not conversant with the book in question, because it had
never been written, but he was entirely too pedantic to admit the fact; so he
smiled, and congratulated the Professor most affably on what he termed "his
well-known attainments," assuring him that he would find in the cathedral a rich
field of research in his particular line of work. Spotts was now brought up, and
introduced as a rising young architect of ecclesiastical tendencies, which
delighted his Lordship immensely as there was nothing he liked better than to
explain every detail of his cathedral to an appreciative listener. "I've a bit
of old dog-tooth I shall want you to look at to-morrow," said his host, "and
there's some Roman tiling in the north transept that absolutely demands your
attention." Spotts smiled assent, but was evidently bewildered, and seizing the
first opportunity that offered, asked Cecil in a low voice if his father took
him for a dentist or a mason. "For a dentist or a mason?" queried Banborough. "I
don't understand." "Well, anyway, he said something about looking after his old
dog's teeth and attending to his tiles." Cecil exploded in a burst of laughter,
saying:

"That's only the architectural jargon, man. You must play the game." "Oh, I
see," said the actor. "It's about his ramshackle old church. Well, I'll do my
best--" But his assurances were cut short by the flow of his Lordship's
conversation. "As I was saying, Mr. Spotts," he continued, "I should be much
interested to hear your American views on the subject of a clerestory." "Sure,"
replied the actor, plunging recklessly. "I always believe in having four clear
stories at least, and in New York and Chicago we run 'em up as high as--" But
here a premonitory kick from Cecil brought his speech to an abrupt termination.
"Most astonishing," commented his Lordship. "I've never heard of more than one."
"Oh, our Western churches are chock-full of new wrinkles." "Of new--what? I
don't understand. Another cup' of tea for you, Mrs. Mackintosh? Certainly. We
must pursue this subject at leisure, Mr. Spotts." The party now turned their
attention to the repast, and the Bishop proceeded to devote himself to Mrs.
Mackintosh. "I'm afraid," he said, when he had seen her sufficiently fortified
with tea containing a due allowance of sugar, and supplemented by a plateful of
cake which he had ordered to be brought as a practical substitute for the
scriptural calf--"I'm afraid you will find our simple life at Blanford very
dull." "Dear sakes, no!" said that lady, hitching her chair up closer to the
Bishop for a confidential chat--an action on her part which elicited a flashing
glance of disapproval from Miss Matilda. "I've heard all about you," she went
on, "from your son Cecil. You don't mind if I call him Cecil, do you? for I'm
almost old enough to be his mother. Well, as I was saying, when he told me about
the cathedral and the beeches and the rooks and you, all being here, hundreds of
years old--"

"Excuse me, madam," said his Lordship, "I'm hardly as aged as that." "Of course
I didn't mean you, stupid! How literal you English are!" It is highly probable
that in all the sixty years of his well-ordered existence the Bishop of Blanford
had never been called "stupid" by anybody. He gasped, and the episcopal cross,
and even the heavy gold chain by which it depended from his neck, were unduly
agitated. Then he decided that he liked it, and determined to continue the
conversation. "When I thought of all that," said Mrs. Mackintosh, "I said to
your son: 'Cecil,' said I, 'your father's like that old board fence in my back
yard; he needs a coat of whitewash to freshen him up, and I'm going over to put
it on.'" "Cromwell," remarked the Bishop, "applied enough whitewash to Blanford
to last it for several centuries. Indeed, we've not succeeded in restoring all
the frescoes yet." "Nonsense, man," said Mrs. Mackintosh, "you don't see the
point at all. Now what do you take when your liver's out of order?" "Really,
madam," faltered the Bishop, thoroughly aghast at this new turn in the
conversation, "I--er--generally consult my medical adviser." "Well, you
shouldn't!" said Mrs. Mackintosh with determination. "You should take what we
call in my country a pick-me-up. Now I said to your son: 'I'm going to be a
mental and moral pick-me-up for your father. What he needs is a new point of
view. If you don't take care, he'll fossilise, and you'll have to put him in the
British Museum.'" The Bishop's reflections during this conversation were many
and varied. What he was pleased to term his inner moral consciousness told him
he ought to be shocked at its flippancy; the rest of his mental make-up was
distinctly refreshed. Besides, a certain tension in the social atmosphere
suggested that Miss Matilda was about to go forth to battle, so he smiled
graciously, saying:

"It's certainly very considerate of you to undertake all this on my account, but
I should not like to be in any one's debt, and I hardly see how I can repay my
obligations." "I'm just coming to that," said Mrs. Mackintosh. "I don't say that
I shouldn't be doing a Christian act by taking you in hand, but I'm free to
admit that I've a personal interest in the matter, for you're the one man in
England I most wanted to meet." "But what can there possibly be about me--"
began the Bishop. "It isn't about you," replied his guest. "It's about Jonah."
"Josephus," broke in the harsh voice of his sister, "the bell of the mission
chapel has been ringing for some time." The Bishop drew a long breath and formed
a mighty resolve. At last he had met a person who took an intelligent interest
in Jonah, a Biblical character to whose history he had devoted exhaustive
research. It was a golden opportunity not to be let slip. So, turning to his
sister and looking her squarely in the eyes, he replied boldly that he was quite
aware of the fact. "If you do not go at once you'll be late," remarked that
lady. "I've not the slightest intention of going at all," said the Bishop. "I'm
talking to Mrs. Mackintosh, who is, it seems, much interested in Jonah." There
came a sound as of spluttering from the upraised tea-cup of Professor Tybalt
Smith, and Miss Matilda gave a distinctly aggressive sniff. "If you're not
going, Josephus," she retorted, "I must send word to one of the chaplains,
though after what you had said I naturally--" But there she paused, arrested by
the incredible fact that for the first time in her experience her brother was
not listening to what she was saying. Her silence commanded his attention. "Oh,"
he replied, looking up vacantly, "do what you think proper," and turned again to
Mrs. Mackintosh, who proceeded placidly with her theme. "Of course," she said,
"you hear a lot about seeing with the eye of faith, but I like to see with the
eye of understanding, too, and I never yet sat under a preacher who was what I
should call 'up to Jonah.' I read your book when it came out. It was one of the
prizes they offered for selling on commission fifty packets of Tinker's Tannin
Tea, and I've been wild to meet you ever since. I have been a-whaling, so to
speak, for years, but I expect you to carry me safely into port." "Madam," said
the Bishop, "you overwhelm me." He was immensely flattered by her appreciative,
if outspoken, commendation. "I'm now," he continued, "at work on a set of
supplementary sermons on this very subject; and if it wouldn't be imposing too
much on your good nature to let me read them to you, or parts of them--they
embrace some six hundred pages." Mrs. Mackintosh looked at him regretfully.
"Isn't there any more than that?" she said. "I wanted three volumes at least."
The Bishop beamed with gratification. "I trust," he replied, "that they'll be
worthy of your attention. But my treatment of the subject is--er--slightly
doctrinal, and perhaps you're not a member of the Church of England." "Well,
no," said Mrs. Mackintosh. "I can't say as I am. I was baptised a Methodist,
brought up in a Roman Catholic convent, finished at a Presbyterian boarding-
school, and married before a Justice of the Peace to a Unitarian, and since I've
been a widow I've attended a Baptist church regularly; but I don't believe I'd
mind a few weeks of an Episcopalian, specially seeing he's a Bishop, which I
haven't experienced before." "I shall endeavour to do my best, madam," said his
Lordship. "Perhaps I may even lead you--in time--"

"Well, I shouldn't be surprised but what you might," replied Mrs. Mackintosh,
"but I mustn't take up all your time. I want you to know my little friend Miss
Arminster. She's one of the nicest girls that ever was." "I shall be delighted,"
said his Lordship. "Arminster," he continued reflectively. "Does she come from
the Arminsters of Shropshire?" Mrs. Mackintosh laughed. "I'm sure I don't know,"
she replied, "but from the way her friends speak of her, you'd think she came
from Noah's Ark." "Dear me!" said the Bishop. "That's very curious." "They call
her the Leopard," she went on, "and I must say for my part that I'm 'most as
fond of the Leopard as I am of Jonah's whale." And she rose and joined the group
about the tea-table, for she did not wish to try Miss Matilda's patience too
far. "I don't know what you'll think of our quiet life. I fear it'll seem very
strange to you," said his Lordship, addressing himself to Miss Arminster. "I
think it'll be jolly," she replied promptly, looking up at him playfully to see
whether he would bear chaffing, "and," she added, after due deliberation, "I
think you're a dear, and your uniform is just sweet. I always did love a
uniform. I used to be awfully gone, as a child, on a policeman at the corner of
our block, but you're much more nicely dressed than he was." His Lordship
started to say something crushing in regard to the sanctity of ecclesiastical
trappings, but another glance at the bewitching little figure that confronted
him caused him to remark instead that he was glad she approved of him, and that
he would try to take better care of her than even a guardian of the law. "Oh,
I'm afraid I've said something shocking!" she exclaimed in a delightfully naive
manner, "and I did mean to be so good and decorous. I'm sure I'll need a lot of
teaching." "I shall be delighted to undertake the task," he replied gallantly.
"Suppose we begin by going to evensong. Would you like to do so?" "Rather," she
returned; "but I'm afraid," looking at her travelling-costume, "that I'm hardly
dressed for the part--I mean the occasion." "Dear me!" said the Bishop,
scrutinizing her keenly, "it seems to be a very pretty gown." "Oh, that's all
right," she said. "Then we'll go at once." "So we shall," he replied, "and you
shall sit in the stalls." "How jolly!" she exclaimed. "I almost always have to
sit in the balcony." "Really?" said his Lordship. "You don't say so. But from
what Mr. Spotts says, I should judge that the architecture of American churches
was novel." And they walked across the lawn to the cathedral. A few moments
later, Miss Matilda, having dismissed her guests to their rooms, found herself
alone with her nephew. "Well," she said, turning on him sharply, "perhaps at
last you'll condescend to tell me who these _friends_ of yours are?" "They're a
party of ladies and gentlemen with whom I've been travelling in America," Cecil
replied. "And as we'd agreed to join forces for the rest of the summer, I'd no
option but to invite them here as my guests. The gentlemen I've already
introduced to you--"

"Oh, the gentlemen!" snapped his aunt. "I've no concern about them. It's the
women I--"

"The ladies, Aunt Matilda." "The ladies, then. Your father, in what he is
pleased to call his wisdom, has seen fit to allow you to introduce these persons
into his house. I'm sure I hope he won't regret it! But I must insist on knowing
something about the people whom I'm entertaining." "As I've told you already,"
he replied very quietly, "they're ladies whom I've met in America. I might also
add that they've good manners and are uniformly courteous." Miss Matilda tilted
her nose till its tip pointed straight at the spire of the cathedral, and,
without any reply, swept past him into the house. Dinner, that night, in spite
of his aunt's efforts to the contrary, was an unqualified success. The Bishop
hailed with joy any interruption in the monotony of his daily life, and made
himself most agreeable, while his guests seconded him to the best of their
ability. The meal being over, his Lordship proposed a rubber of whist, a
relaxation of which he was very fond, but which, in the reduced state of his
family, he was seldom able to enjoy. Mrs. Mackintosh and Smith, as the two best
players of the party, expressed themselves as willing to take a hand, and Miss
Matilda made up the fourth. "You'll excuse me," said his Lordship apologetically
to Mrs. Mackintosh, "if we play only for threepenny points. Were I a curate I
could play for sixpence, but in my position the stakes are necessarily limited."
"You don't ever mean to say," exclaimed the old lady, "that you're a gambling
Bishop!" "My brother," interrupted Miss Matilda, "is a pattern of upright living
to his day and generation. But of course if you're incapable of understanding
the difference between a sinful wager of money and the few pence necessary to
keep up the interest of the game--"

"Gambling is gambling, to my mind," said Mrs. Mackintosh, "whether you play for
dollars or doughnuts!" "The point seems well taken," remarked the Bishop
meditatively. "It's certainly never struck me in that light before; but if you
think--"

"I think," said the old lady decidedly, "that it's lucky for you that there are
no whales in Blanford!" Miss Matilda threw down her cards. "If I'm to be called
a gambler under my own brother's roof," she said, "I shall refuse to play.
Besides I've a headache." And she rose majestically from the table. "But, my
dear," began the Bishop meekly, "if we cannot find a fourth hand--"

"If Miss Banborough doesn't feel up to playing," came the sweet tones of
Violet's voice, "I'll be delighted to take her place." And a moment later she
was ensconced at the table. The Bishop's sister retired to a corner with the
largest and most aggressive volume of sermons she could find, and sniffed loudly
at intervals all the evening. And when at ten o'clock, in response to the
summons of an impressive functionary clad in black and bearing a wand surmounted
by a silver cross, the little party filed out to evening devotions in the
chapel, Miss Matilda gathered her skirts around her as if she feared contagion.
"I'm afraid of that old cat," Mrs. Mackintosh confided to Violet, when they had
reached the haven of their apartments. "I'm sure she suspects us already; and if
we're not careful, she'll find us out." CHAPTER II. IN WHICH THE ENEMY ARRIVES.
"I say, boss," remarked the tramp, as he paused for a moment in the process of
stuffing himself to repletion with cold game-pie, "this is a rum trip, and no
mistake." "What's that got to do with you?" retorted Marchmont sharply,
appropriating the remaining fragments of the pasty to his own use. The two men
were seated in the shady angle of a ruined buttress, a portion of a stately
abbey, which in pre-Norman days had flourished at a spot some half-dozen miles
from the site of Blanford. "Well," said the tramp, "if this ain't a wild-goose
chase I dunno what you calls it. Here you've gone an' took me away from my happy
home, an' brought me across the ragin' Atlantic, an' dumped me in a moth-eaten
little village where there ain't nothin' fit to drink, all because I happened to
chum with a Bishop." "You seem to forget," said Marchmont, "that it was you who
came to me, offering to sell your friends and their secrets for a sufficient
remuneration." "So I did," said the tramp; "but it was revenge, that's what it
was--revenge. I was deserted in a furrin land, with just my board-bill paid, and
not a penny to bless myself with." "Ah," said Marchmont. "That's the reason, I
suppose, why you came from Montreal to New York in a parlour car." The tramp
sighed despondently, saying:

"Now whoever told you that, boss?" "Nobody. I found the Pullman check in your
coat-pocket when I was looking for my diamond ring, which you'd absent-mindedly
placed there." "Humph!" replied the other. "There ain't no foolin' you!" "I
should be a pretty poor journalist if there were," said his employer. "Now give
me the story again, and see if you can get it straight." "Well, there ain't
nothin' much to tell, 'cept I was carried off by them Spanish conspirators in
mistake for a lady, which I in no-wise resembles, an' the bloke as was the head
of the gang was allus called the Bishop, and a pretty rum Bishop he was." "Never
mind about his qualifications," interrupted Marchmont shortly; adding to
himself, "That explains his son's presence in Montreal." "Well, this Bishop,"
continued the tramp, "used to talk about his palace at Blanford; and when the
party give me the go-by, I gathered from the porter as took their traps that
they'd gone to England; and the elevator-boy, he heard the Bishop say to the
little actress as they'd be as safe at the palace as they would anywhere. And
then I come on to New York and blew it into you." "Yes," said Marchmont, "and
I've given you a first-class passage to England, paid your board and lodging,
and kept you full for the best part of three weeks; and what do I get out of
it?" "I admit as we haven't had much results as yet," said the tramp. "But now
things is goin' to hum. The Bishop and his whole gang's coming over to these
very ruins to-day." "How did you find that out?" demanded the journalist.
"Footman up to the palace told me. I give him a little jamboree last night at
the 'Three Jolly Sailor-boys.'" "Yes, and had to be carried home dead-drunk.
Nice one you are to keep a secret." "Well, I was only a-doin' me duty," said the
tramp in an aggrieved tone of voice, "and if they don't know you're after 'em,
and you should happen to be inspectin' the ruins at the same time as they are,
you could get chummy with 'em without half tryin'." "I'll attend to that," said
the newspaper man. "I've just had a cable from the _Daily Leader_ telling me to
hustle if I want to get that position, and I've got to do something, and do it
quick. But it'll never do for you to be seen. Once they know we're together, the
game's up. I can't have you larking round with the servants either. You'll spoil
the whole show. You've got to go back to Dullhampton this afternoon." "What!
that little one-horse fishing-town?" "Yes, that's where you're wanted. It's the
nearest port to Blanford, and it's where they'll try and get out of the country
if they're hard pressed. You just stay there and keep your eyes open till you
hear from me." The tramp growled surlily, and reluctantly prepared to obey.
"Now, then," said Marchmont shortly, "get a move on. Yes, you can take the
provender with you. It'll help to keep your mouth shut." As the tramp slouched
round the corner and out of sight, his master stretched himself comfortably on
the ground, and supporting his head on one arm, with his straw hat tilted over
his eyes to protect them from the sun, he proceeded to go peacefully to sleep.
Scarcely had the journalist composed himself to slumber, when the ruins were
invaded by the party from the palace. It was now about a month since Cecil and
his friends had arrived at Blanford, and though this expedition to the old abbey
had been often discussed, one thing and another had intervened to prevent its
being put into execution. After her first burst of antagonism, Miss Matilda had
settled down to a formal hospitality which was, if anything, more disconcerting.
Tybalt Smith alone had achieved a favourable position in her eyes, and this only
as the result of a very considerable amount of flattery and attention. At first
his friends were at a loss to account for his attitude, but as time went on it
appeared that the tragedian had not exerted himself for nothing. "The dear
Professor" frequently had his breakfast in bed when he was too lazy to get up,
and Miss Matilda considered the delicate state of his health required the daily
stimulus of a pint of champagne. He also had the exclusive use of her victoria
in the afternoon, and even if this did necessitate an occasional attendance at
missionary meetings and penny readings, it was after all but a fair return for
value received. On this occasion he had begged off going to the picnic, and was
spending a luxurious day at the palace, waited on by the Bishop's sister. The
party, having arrived at the abbey, promptly separated to explore the ruins, his
Lordship gallantly offering to play the part of cicerone to the ladies. Miss
Violet, however, for reasons of her own, preferred seclusion and a quiet chat
with Spotts to any amount of architectural antiquities, so her host was enabled
to devote his entire time to Mrs. Mackintosh. "Does it strike you," remarked the
Bishop, a few moments later, pausing in his wanderings to inspect critically a
fragment of Roman brick--"does it strike you how absolutely peaceful this spot
is?" "Well," returned Mrs. Mackintosh, "I don't know as it does. I should have
said your palace was about as good a sample of all-round peacefulness as there
is going." "Ha," said his Lordship, "it hadn't occurred to me." "That's just
like you men. You never know when you're well off. Now with your palace and
Jonah you ought to be content." The Bishop sighed. "Dear lady," he said, "I
admit my faults. The palace I indeed possess temporarily, but Jonah--ah, what
would Jonah be without you! If I have left my work once in the past month to ask
your advice, I have left it a hundred times." "You have," admitted Mrs.
Mackintosh with decision. "Then it is to you that Jonah owes his debt of
gratitude, not to me. You have lightened my labour in more senses of the word
than one." "Well, I've had a very pleasant visit. Blanford's a little paradise."
The Bishop sighed again, and remarked:

"Paradise I have always regarded as being peaceful." "Yes," acquiesced his
companion reflectively, "with all that Jonah went through, I don't remember as
he had an unmarried sister." There was silence for a moment, and then his
Lordship abruptly changed the subject. "What a charming, bright, fresh young
life is Miss Arminster's! She dances through the world like--like--er--" And he
paused for a simile. "Like a grasshopper," suggested Mrs. Mackintosh, with
marked disapproval in her tones. The Bishop had a trivial, not to say frivolous,
strain in his nature which seemed to her hardly in accord with his exalted
position. "No, dear lady," objected his Lordship, "not a grasshopper. Decidedly
not a grasshopper; say--like a ray of sunshine." "Violet's a good girl,"
remarked his companion, "a very good girl, but in most things she is still a
child, and the serious side of life doesn't appeal to her. I dare say she'd go
to sleep if you read to her about Jonah." "She did," admitted the Bishop; "but
then of course," he added, wishing to palliate the offence, "it was a very hot
day. I suppose, however, you are right. Serious things do not interest her--and
that is--I should say--we are serious." "I am," said Mrs. Mackintosh, "and at
your time of life you ought to be; and if we stand here any longer looking at
that chunk of brick in the broiling sun, we'll both be as red as a couple of
beets." No amount of sentiment could be proof against a statement of this sort,
and they moved on. Violet and Spotts had meantime sat themselves down on a
convenient tombstone to while away the interval till luncheon was served. "There
are lots of things I want to talk to you about, Alvy," began the little actress,
"and I never get the chance." "Well, fire away," he replied. "You've got it
now." "In the first place," she said, "I don't like the way things are going
here." "At the palace, you mean?" "Yes. We're not aboveboard. We're shamming all
the while. Besides, we're doing nothing in our profession." "It's better than
doing time in prison." "It isn't straightforward, and I don't like it," she went
on. "Neither do I," he returned; "but there are other things I like less." "Such
as?" "Well, people falling in love with you, for instance." "Oh, Cecil. He
received his _conge_ before we left America." "I said _people_." "You don't mean
the Bishop?" Spotts nodded. "But he's such a dear funny old thing!" she cried.
"What's that got to do with it?" "Why, he might be my grandfather." "He's as
frisky as a two-year-old," remarked the actor. "And finally," continued Violet,
not noticing the interruption, "his old cat of a sister wouldn't let him."
"Worms have turned, and straws have broken camels' backs before now," persisted
Spotts. "Don't you call me names, sir! Worms and straws, indeed! What next, I
should like to know!" "If you don't take care, you'll be called his _Lordship's_
'leopard.'" She burst out laughing. "Nonsense!" she cried. "Why, I actually
believe you're becoming jealous." "Not a bit of it," he said. "I'd trust you,
little girl, through thick and thin." "I know you would, Alvy, and I'd rather
marry you--well, ten times, before I'd marry a lord or a bishop once." "I know
it, old girl, I know it!" cried Spotts ecstatically, and slipped his arm round
her waist. "Oh, do be careful," she protested. "Just think, if any one should
see us! I'm sure I heard a footstep behind us." They looked up, and saw Cecil
above them, standing on the sill of an old ruined window. He had not heard their
words, but he had seen Spotts's embrace, and realised bitterly how little chance
he stood against such a combination of Apollo and Roscius. The month which had
intervened since his return to Blanford had not been an altogether happy time
for the Bishop's son. The pain of Miss Arminster's refusal still rankled within
him, and that young lady's actions had not done much to soothe it. Had she
comported herself with a resigned melancholy, he could have borne his own
sufferings with fortitude. But, on the contrary, she had, he considered, flirted
most outrageously with Mr. Spotts. Indeed Cecil was already strongly of the
opinion that the actor was trying to succeed where he had failed--a course of
action which he thought quite justifiable on his, Banborough's, part, but highly
reprehensible on the part of any one else. Matters had now culminated. Fate had
brought the three together at this inopportune moment, and as it was manifestly
impossible not to say something, Cecil laid himself out to be agreeable, and
Miss Arminster, who was naturally aware of the awkwardness of his position, did
her best to promote conversation, while Spotts almost immediately cut the
Gordian knot by excusing himself on the plea of looking after the lunch. "Well,"
she said, "what's the latest news from Spain?" "It seems to me that the war must
be almost over," he replied. "Now that Santiago's fallen, and Cervera's fleet's
destroyed, Spain has no alternative but to yield." "Ah," she murmured, "then
we'll be free once more." "Has your exile been so irksome to you?" he asked.
"Oh," she returned, "I didn't mean it that way, really. Believe me, I'm not
ungrateful. Blanford's just sweet, and your father's an old dear." "Yes," he
retorted, laughing. "I notice you're doing your best to usurp Mrs. Mackintosh's
place in his affections." "That's not from pique, it's from charity," she
replied. "I've been trying to rescue her from Jonah." "I'm afraid my governor
must be an awful bore," he said. "Oh, but he's so sweet and simple with it all,"
she objected. "I'm really growing to be awfully fond of him." "I think he's
growing to be awfully fond of _you_," said his son. Miss Arminster laughed
merrily. "Don't you fancy me as a step-mamma?" she queried. "But, joking apart,
I'm afraid even Blanford would pall on me after a while. It isn't my first visit
here, you see. I was on a tour through these counties three years ago." "That's
how you came to know about my father, I suppose." "Yes," she said. "I had him
pointed out to me, and you look a good deal alike. Besides, the name's not
common." "I'm glad you liked Blanford well enough to come back to it." "Oh," she
returned, looking up at him with a roguish smile, "this section of the country
has other associations for me." "I was waiting for that," he retorted. "In which
of the neighbouring towns were you married?" "The one nearest here," she
replied. "I think we can just see the spire of the church over the trees. But
how did you know?" "I inferred it as a matter of course," he said banteringly,
"but I'm only joking." "But I'm not," she returned. "Do you really mean that you
were married over there?" he asked, pointing to the distant church. "Yes," she
replied. "The third of June, 1895." "I say, you know," he said, "I think you
might have married me once in a way, as I had asked you." "Mr. Banborough," she
replied stiffly, drawing herself up, "you forget yourself." "I beg your pardon,"
he returned humbly. "Only as American divorce laws are so lax, I thought--"

"The divorce laws of my country are a disgrace, and nothing would ever induce me
to avail myself of them. Besides, marriage, to me, is a very serious and solemn
matter, and I can't permit you to speak about it flippantly, even by way of a
joke." Cecil picked up a handful of pebbles and began throwing them meditatively
at the fragment of an adjacent arch. The more he saw of Miss Arminster, the
greater mystery she became. By her own admission, she had been married at least
half a dozen times, which, were he to accept as real the high moral standard
which she always assumed, must imply a frightful mortality among her husbands.
But then she neither seemed flippant nor shallow, and her serious attitude
towards the sacrament of marriage appeared wholly incompatible with a
matrimonial experience which might have caused a Mormon to shudder. Anyway, she
wasn't going to marry him, and he turned to the discussion of more fruitful
subjects. "How's Spotts getting on with his studies in architecture?" he asked.
"I should think he'd learned a good deal," she replied. "Your father hasn't left
a stone of his own cathedral unexplained, and I imagine he'll put him through
his paces over this abbey." "Poor Spotts! I'm afraid he's had a hard row to
hoe," said Cecil; "but, anyway, it'll keep him out of mischief." "You must be
very careful what you say about him to me," she replied. "I won't hear one word
against him, for we're very old friends." "So I should infer," he retorted,
"from what I've just seen. _I_ never was allowed to put _my_ arm--"

"How dare you!" she cried, rising, really angry this time. "I--" Then turning to
the Bishop, who arrived very opportunely, she exclaimed:

"Won't you rescue me, please? Your son's becoming awfully impertinent!" "Then,"
said his Lordship gallantly, "my son must be taught better manners. If he cannot
show himself worthy of such a charming companion, we'll punish him by leaving
him entirely alone." Certainly his father was coming on, thought Cecil. But if
Miss Arminster tried to take advantage of his dotage to forge another link in
her matrimonial chain, he, Banborough, would have a word to say on the subject.
"I wish to tell you, my dear," began his Lordship as they walked away, leaving
Cecil disconsolate, "of a very nice invitation I've received for the rest of the
week. Lord Downton is to call for me in his yacht at Dullhampton to-morrow, and
has asked me to join his party and to bring some lady with me to make the number
even." "Oh, how jolly that'll be--for Miss Matilda!" said the artful Violet.
"Humph!--ye-es," replied the Bishop. "I hardly think my sister could leave the
palace just at this time." "Perhaps," suggested his guest, "yachting doesn't
agree with her. Has she ever tried it before?" "She has," replied the Bishop,
with a certain asperity. "Ah, poor thing!" said Miss Arminster. "It must have
taken away from your pleasure to feel that she was suffering such great
discomfort on your account." "Lord Downton didn't specify my sister. He only
said 'some lady'; and so I thought if you--"

"Oh, that's just sweet of you!" exclaimed his companion. "I'm sure I should
adore yachting. It's something I've always wanted to do." "Then we'll consider
it settled," said the Bishop. "But Miss Matilda?" "Ah, yes," admitted his
Lordship. "That's just the trouble. You see my dilemma." "Of course!" Violet
responded promptly, understanding that he wished to be helped out. "If your
sister knew you were going, she'd feel it her duty to accompany you, and the
trip would be spoilt for you by her sufferings. So, out of your affection for
her, you think it would be better if we were just quietly to slip off to-morrow
and send her a wire from Dullhampton." The Bishop was delighted. Miss Matilda
never accepted him at his own valuation. "So, just on your account," continued
his companion demurely, "I won't say a word, though I hate any form of
concealment." "H'm--naturally," said the Bishop. "But since it's for your dear
sister's sake--"

"We'll take the eleven-fifty train to-morrow," replied his Lordship. And here
his remarks were cut short from the fact that in suddenly rounding a corner he
had planted his foot on the recumbent form of Marchmont. "Hullo!" said that
gentleman, sitting up, and adding, as he rubbed his eyes to get them wider open,
"permit me to inform you that this part of the ground is strictly preserved."
"Who are you, sir?" demanded the Bishop. "Come," said the stranger cheerfully,
"we'll make a bargain. I'll tell you who you are, if you'll tell me who I am."
"I do not see how that is possible--" began his Lordship. "Well, I'll begin,"
said Marchmont. "You're the Bishop of Blanford and I'm your son's greatest
benefactor." "Really, you surprise me. May I enquire how you've benefited him?"
"I made the fame of his book, 'The Purple Kangaroo.' I've been sending you my
editorials on the subject for some weeks past." "Are you the person who wrote
those scandalous leaders which have been forwarded to me from America?" demanded
the Bishop. "I thought you'd remember them," said the journalist. "They're eye-
openers, aren't they?" His Lordship drew himself up and put on his most
repressive manner, but Marchmont babbled on serenely. "The last time I saw Cecil
he said to me: 'Whenever you come to England, Marchmont, you just drop round to
the palace, and we'll make things hum.' So, having a chance for a little
vacation, I jumped on board a steamer, crossed to Southampton, and biked up-
country, doing these ruins on the way. I meant to have presented myself at the
palace this afternoon in due form and a swallow-tailed coat, but I'm just as
much pleased to see you as if I'd been regularly introduced." "You're one of the
most consummate liars I ever knew," remarked Cecil, who, hearing voices, had
strolled over to see what it was all about. "Put it more mildly, my dear
fellow," replied the American. "Call me a journalist, and spare your father's
feelings." "Well, now you're here, what do you intend to do?" demanded
Banborough. "Do?" said Marchmont. "Why, I'm going to put up for a week at your
'Pink Pig,' or your 'Azure Griffin,' or whatever kind of nondescript-coloured
animal your local hostelry boasts, and study your charming cathedral. But, in
the first place, I think we'd better have some lunch. I'm as hungry as a bear."
"I fear we've scarcely provided for an extra guest," returned Cecil frigidly.
The journalist was the very last person he wanted to see at Blanford, and he did
not take any pains to disguise the fact. Marchmont, however, was not to be
snubbed, and remarking cheerfully that there was always enough for one more,
calmly proceeded in the direction of the hampers. Once there, he constituted
himself chef and butler forthwith, and moreover proved so efficient in both
capacities that, irritated as his friend was at his self-assurance, he could not
but express his appreciation. Marchmont, having started the rest of the people
on their lunch and made all feel at their ease, turned on his journalistic tap
for the benefit of the Bishop, and plied the old gentleman with such a judicious
mixture of flattery and amusing anecdote that, by the time the repast was over,
his Lordship was solemnly assuring his son, much to that young gentleman's
disgust, that he was indeed fortunate in possessing such a delightful friend,
and that he might invite Mr. Marchmont to the palace if he liked. "Quite so,"
said Cecil. "I suppose you remember his article in the _Daily Leader_, in which
he alluded to you as a 'consecrated fossil'?" "H'm!" said the Bishop. "Really,
the accommodation at the inn is very good, and perhaps, with so many guests, it
would be asking too much of your aunt." "What does all this mean?" asked Spotts
of Banborough when a convenient opportunity offered. The Bishop's son shrugged
his shoulders, replying:

"It means mischief." CHAPTER III. IN WHICH PEACE IS PROPOSED AND WAR DECLARED.
Marchmont stood on the lawn before the palace, on the morning after his arrival,
critically inspecting that structure; his feet stretched wide apart, his hands
in his pockets, and his hat on the back of his head. Cecil, emerging from
breakfast, sighted his enemy and made haste to join him. "Jolly old rookery
you've got," remarked the reporter. "Yes," said Banborough. "It was a monastery
originally. They turned it into a bishop's palace about the reign of Henry
VIII." "I know that style," said the American. "Nice rambling ark, two stories
high, and no two rooms on the same level. Architect built right out into the
country till he got tired, and then turned round and came back. Obliged to have
a valet to show you to your room whether you're sober or not." "I didn't know,"
said Cecil drily, "that you possessed an extensive acquaintance in
ecclesiastical circles in this country." "Oh, yes," said Marchmont, "I served as
valet for six months to a bishop while I was gathering materials for my articles
on 'English Sees Seen from the Inside.'" "Was it a financial success?" queried
Banborough. "No," admitted the reporter regretfully, "it sold the paper
splendidly, but was stopped at the second article at the request of the American
ambassador." "Did you favour us with a visit?" "I hadn't that honour." "If you
had done so you would probably have slept in the rooms we give to our American
guests in the new part of the house." "How old is that?" queried the journalist.
"About eight hundred years," replied Cecil, "and the walls are four feet thick."
"I know," said the reporter, "It's appalling. That sort of thing always upsets
me. It seems so out of keeping with the _Daily Leader_." "Look here, Marchmont,
why have you come to Blanford?" demanded Banborough, abruptly changing the
conversation. "To have the joy of your society," returned the journalist. "If
that were really the case I'd be delighted to see you," said the Englishman.
"But you're on the track of these unfortunate people who are my guests; and if
you make things disagreeable for them I shan't have the slightest compunction in
forbidding you the house." The American, apparently ignoring the other's
frankness, remarked:

"So you admit they're conspirators?" "I admit nothing of the kind. They're
perfectly innocent of the charge you bring against them, and you've been making
an awful ass of yourself, if you only knew it." "Ah, thank you. But if this is
the case why didn't you mention the fact to me in Montreal?" "I had my reasons."
"And why are all these people received as honoured guests in your father's
palace?" "That, if you'll permit me to say so, Marchmont, is a matter that
doesn't concern you." "Everything concerns me. Not that I expect you to see that
point of view. But to put it another way. Considering all I've done to increase
the sale of your book, won't you do me a good turn and tell me what you know
about this affair?" "I wish the confounded book had never sold a copy!" burst
out Banborough. "And I'll not say one word to the detriment of my friends!"
"Then it _is_ to be war?" queried the journalist, rolling a cigarette. "Not so
far as I'm concerned," replied his host. "Why don't you let bygones be bygones?
A truce between the United States and Spain may be declared any day, and then--"

"Then my great scoop will be lost for ever. What would the public care about
conspirators if there were no war?" "Exactly what I say," said Cecil. "So let's
drop the whole matter." "Not much!" cried the journalist. "It's my last chance.
And if you won't help me--why, I must help myself." "What do you wish me to do?"
"Turn 'em out of Blanford." "Impossible!" "But your father?" "How dare you
mention my father's name in this connection? I won't have him dragged into
publicity to sell your dirty rag of a newspaper!" Cecil exploded, thoroughly
beside himself at the thought of such a dreadful possibility. The journalist
nodded his head gravely. Banborough's fierce defence of the Bishop he attributed
to far other grounds than those on which it was really based. It justified him
to the tramp's suspicions that his Lordship was actually connected with the
plot. "Well," he said, with a fair pretence of backing down, "there's no need of
getting so hot about it. Of course I don't want to make myself disagreeable."
"Neither do I," replied his host. "Only we may as well understand each other.
You're quite welcome to come to the palace as long as you remember to be a
gentleman before you are a journalist. But if you forget it, I'll be forced to
treat you as you deserve," and turning on his heel, he left Marchmont chewing
the ends of his sandy moustache with a grim avidity that boded ill for the peace
of the Bishop and his household. The American told himself that he must work
carefully. Banborough would watch him and probably put the others on their
guard. And moreover, he would not hesitate to dismiss him from the palace,
which, apart from the unpleasantness of the operation, would be well-nigh fatal
to the success of the scheme the journalist was maturing. Decidedly the highest
caution was essential, but he must work quickly, for there was no time to be
lost. Marchmont therefore proceeded to pump the first member of the company he
came across. This happened to be Spotts, who was in rather a bad humour, the
result of a morning spent with the Bishop in the cobwebby heights of a
neighbouring church-tower. "You're the very person I wanted to see," cried the
reporter. "I'm afraid I've hardly time to be interviewed just now," replied the
actor shortly. "Oh, this isn't professional. I'm off duty sometimes. I'm only
human." "Oh, are you? I supposed newspaper men were neither the one nor the
other." "Well, I wanted to talk to you for your own good." "Is it as bad as all
that?" "Of course I know who you really are," pursued the journalist, ignoring
the interruption. "And I may say confidentially that you and Miss Arminster are
not the people of this party I'm after." "Ah, that's very thoughtful of you."
"So, if I could help you two to slip off quietly--"

"Why include Miss Arminster?" queried Spotts with well-affected surprise. "Why?
My dear fellow, you don't suppose I'm quite blind. Any one who follows that lady
about with his eyes as you do is naturally-- Well--you understand--"

"I'm afraid your professional acumen is at fault this time," said the actor, and
added: "I hope I may never come any nearer being married than I am now." "Oh, I
say," returned Marchmont; "don't you aspire to be her--sixteenth, is it?"
"You're alluding to Miss Arminster's husbands?" asked Spotts drily. "Oh, I'd a
little bet up with a friend," said Marchmont, "that she'd been married at least
a baker's dozen times. Ought I to hedge?" "I think you're well inside the
number," replied the actor. "Gad! she must be pretty well acquainted with the
divorce courts!" exclaimed the reporter. "I'm quite sure she's never been
divorced in her life," returned Spotts. "So long. I'm after a drink." And he
left him, thus terminating the conversation. "Ah," said the journalist to
himself, "I bet you're the next in line, just the same." Baffled in his first
attempt, Marchmont sought other means of information, for there is always a weak
spot in every defence, and a man of far less keen perception than the reporter
would have had little difficulty in finding the most favourable point of attack.
So it is not surprising that after a little cogitation he went in search of Miss
Matilda, whom he had met the day before when he had returned with the party from
the abbey. He found that lady on the lawn knitting socks for the heathen, and
deserted for the nonce by the faithful Smith. "Dear Miss Banborough," began the
journalist, sitting down beside her, "what a reproach it is to idle men like
myself to see such industry!" "It's very kind of you, I'm sure, to notice my
humble labours," replied the old lady, expanding at once under the first word of
flattery. "My brother tells me you're connected with a great newspaper. How
ennobling that must be! It gives you such a wide scope for doing good."
Marchmont, who had hardly adopted journalism for this purpose, and was conscious
of having done his fair share of mischief in the world, made a desperate effort
to look the part assigned to him, and murmuring something about the inspiration,
to toilers like himself, of such self-sacrificing lives as hers, abruptly turned
the conversation by alluding to the pleasure which she must have felt at her
nephew's return. "Of course we're very glad to have him back," acceded Miss
Matilda. "But then we see little or nothing of him." "Naturally," said the
journalist, "his days must be given up to his friends. How you must be looking
forward to the time when you can have him quite to yourself!" The gleam that
came into the old lady's eye at this remark told him that he had not been
mistaken in fancying her hostile to the strangers, and he hastened to continue
such a fruitful theme, saying:

"I suppose that, as they've been here a month now, you'll be losing them soon."
"I can't say," she snapped. "They seem to be staying for an indefinite period."
"Really?" he replied. "I shouldn't have fancied that your nephew would have
found them very congenial. Indeed, if you'll pardon my frankness, I was rather
surprised to meet them here." Miss Matilda at once gave him her undivided
attention. "You knew them in America?" she asked. "Of course I knew about them.
I was hardly acquainted personally." It was his tone rather than his words that
lent an unfavourable colour to the remark, but the implication was not lost on
the Bishop's sister. Here at last was a man who could give her the information
she was most anxious to obtain. "I should have supposed," she ventured, "that
you'd have known such very intimate friends of Cecil's as these appear to be."
"Oh, no," he returned. "New York's a big place. I dare say you know much more
about them than I do." "I know nothing!" she burst out. "Strange as it may
appear to you, my nephew has never told me one word concerning his guests,
though I'm expected to receive them under my--his father's roof and introduce
them to my friends." "I see," replied Marchmont cautiously. "Cecil should have
trusted to your excellent discrimination and judgment, unless--" and here he
paused. The position required consideration. It was easy enough to tell her
about these people. Merely to say that they were an itinerant company of actors
and actresses would be sufficient to ensure them a speedy _conge_ from Blanford.
But was it wise to do this? Did he want them to go? A hasty action is often like
a boomerang. It returns on the toes of the person who thoughtlessly launches it
in flight. No, on the whole they had better remain, he told himself. The palace
would form an excellent background for the sensational exposure he hoped to
make. If he could only get the Bishop into a corner, he would be quite
satisfied. "Well, what?" she demanded sharply, impatient at his unfinished
sentence. "Unless," he continued, hedging carefully--"unless your nephew felt
that it was quite sufficient to have explained things to his father. Doubtless
the Bishop knows all about his son's friends." "The Bishop knows a great deal
too much for a man in his position," snapped his sister. "Quite so," thought the
journalist, "and doesn't confide it to you." Aloud he remarked:

"Of course there's nothing particular to be said against them, except that
they're hardly in Cecil's set." "I didn't need you to tell me that. But what
about the ladies?" "Ah, yes, the ladies. Well, really, you've put me in an
awkward position, Miss Banborough. One can't be uncomplimentary to the fair sex,
you know." "Humph! Well, Josephus sees more of both of them than is good for
him. But of course Mrs. Mackintosh has neither the youth nor the good looks to
cause me any anxiety." "Mrs. Mackintosh is eminently respectable," said
Marchmont, who always spoke the truth when it did not conflict with business.
"But Miss Arminster?" The journalist did not answer. "Well," she cried, "why
don't you speak?" "Madam," he replied, "you place me in a most embarrassing
situation. My duty to you and the natural gallantry of my nature draw me in
different directions." "I insist." "I put myself in your hands. In saying what I
do I'm laying myself open to serious misconstruction." "You may rely upon my
silence." "Any indiscretion on your part would be most unfortunate." "I shall
not forget the confidence you've reposed in me." "I shall hold you to that," he
said. "If I tell you what I have in mind, will you promise not to use the
information without my permission?" "That I cannot say." "Then I say nothing."
"But you've already implied--"

"But implications, my dear Miss Banborough, are not evidence." "You leave me no
other course but to accede to your request," she said. "Ah, then you promise?"
"I promise." "The word of a woman in your position and of your high moral
standard I know is sacred." She nodded. "Well, then," he continued, "please
answer me this question. Where was your brother the first week in May?" "In
Scotland." "Why did he go?" "For absolute rest. He was worried and run down."
"You heard from him frequently?" "No, not once during the whole time. Sir Joseph
Westmoreland, the great London nerve specialist, who advised the change, even
prohibited correspondence." "You're sure he was in Scotland?" "Really, Mr.
Marchmont, why do you ask?" "Because I saw the Bishop of Blanford in the United
States in the first week of May on his way to Montreal, Canada." "Impossible!"
"I'm certain of it." "I cannot credit what you tell me!" "What I tell you is
quite true. You say he was absent for a month. Might he not have gone to the
States and returned in that time?" His sister nodded. Then, as a sudden thought
occurred to her, she flushed red with anger, exclaiming:

"And this girl, this Miss Arminster! Was she in Montreal also?" "She was,"
replied Marchmont. "I saw her." "The hussy!" cried Miss Matilda, rising. "She
shan't remain in my house another hour!" "Hold on!" he exclaimed. "You forget
your promise!" "But after what you've said!" "I haven't said anything. Miss
Arminster's being in Montreal might have been merely a coincidence." "But do you
know something about her?" "I've investigated her career," he replied, "and have
found nothing objectionable in it, beyond the fact that she's rather fond of
getting married." "Getting married! But surely she calls herself _Miss_
Arminster?" "Ah, yes; but that's very common on the--I mean, not unusual in such
cases." "She has been married, then, more than once?" "I know of a dozen
different occasions on which she has had the service performed." "Infamous!"
"Oh, no. There's no evidence of her ever having been through the divorce court.
Indeed, she may never have been married to more than one man at the same time."
"But how to account--"

"For the mortality in husbands? Well, fortunately, we're not required to do
that." "I will not have my dear brother stricken down in his prime!" gasped Miss
Matilda. "Oh, I don't suppose she's necessarily fatal. Still, as mistress of
Blanford--"

The Bishop's sister arose in her wrath. For the first time in her existence she
wanted to swear, but contented herself by remarking:

"That young woman leaves the palace to-day!" "You forget your promise to me," he
said. "But is it possible, in the face of what you've told me, that you can hold
me to it?" "Quite possible. In fact I mean to do so, and as soon as your
righteous indignation cools down a bit you'll realise that we've nothing
whatsoever to go on. What I've said could only be substantiated by evidence
requiring some time to obtain. If you accused her now, she'd merely deny my
statement, and her word's as good as mine, and probably better, in his
Lordship's estimation." "But is there no proof near at hand?" "Yes. She was
married several years ago at a little church close by the ruined abbey where I
first met your party, and the fact is recorded in the register." "Then surely--"

"There's no crime in being married once," he objected. "But what _can_ we do?"
she asked. "Keep quiet for a little while longer. Miss Arminster's certain to
make some slip, and then--"

"It seems very difficult to wait." "Believe me," he replied, "it's the only way,
and I shall rely on your promise." Saying which, he left her, partly because he
had obtained all the information he wished, and partly because he was certain
that he espied the well-known figure of the tramp hovering behind the bushes on
the opposite side of the lawn. A few moments later he had his hand on that
individual's collar, and was demanding sternly what he meant by coming to
Blanford against his orders. "'Cause I've somethin' of importance to tell yer,"
retorted that worthy. "Well, out with it, quick!" said the journalist. "It's got
to be pretty important to excuse your disobedience." "It is. The boss is going
to bolt." "Who? The Bishop?" "That's it! Him and the lady." "What lady?" "The
young 'un, I guess." "What's all this stuff about?" demanded Marchmont. "It
ain't stuff, as you'll soon see," replied the tramp in an aggrieved tone. "There
was a yacht come into Dullhampton last night, a nasty-lookin' boat and a quick
steamer. The second mate and me, we got to know each other up to the inn--he's a
furriner, he is--a Don, more'n likely. But he let on, havin' had some drink, as
how he'd been sent there with the yacht to wait for the Bishop o' Blanford and a
lady as was comin' down next day, and the Bishop was to give the sailin'
orders." "Humph! What more?" "This mornin' I seed 'em lookin' over a lot of
flags on the deck of the yacht, and one of 'em was Spanish." "So you came all
the way up here to tell me this cock-and-bull story!" "Not till I'd squared the
crew." "Squared the crew?" "I let on to 'em as how they'd been shipped under
false orders to carry two Spanish spies out of the country, an' how we was on to
the fact, and if they'd stay by us they'd not be held responsible; and I
promised 'em ten shillin's apiece and give 'em all the drink they wanted, and
they're ours to a man." "And that's where you've wasted good money and good
liquor. I tell you what you say is impossible. If the Bishop had had any idea of
a move like that, I'd have got wind of it. Besides, his old cat of a sister
would never let him leave Blanford again without her." "Hist!" said the tramp,
pointing across the lawn. "Look there, what did I say? My eyesight ain't what it
was, from breakin' stones up to Sing Sing, and I can't see no faces at this
distance, but there's somethin' sneakin' along there, in bishop's togs."
Marchmont followed the direction he indicated, and saw two figures stealing
round the corner of the palace, carrying hand-bags and showing every sign of
watchfulness and suspicion. Having ascertained that the lawn was clear, they
slipped rapidly across it, and, putting themselves in the protecting shade of a
clump of bushes, turned into the high-road and disappeared. It had needed no
second glance to identify them as his Lordship and Miss Arminster. "By Jove!"
gasped the journalist. "It is true, then! This will be a scoop of scoops! Come,
we've got to run for it. We must take the same train, and they mustn't see us."
Some one else had witnessed the departure, in spite of all the precautions of
the fugitives, and that person was Miss Matilda, who, from the vantage of an
upper window, caught a glimpse of them just as they disappeared through the
gate. Unwilling at first to believe her senses, she rushed to her brother's room
and then to Miss Arminster's. Alas! in each apartment the traces of hasty
packing and missing hand-luggage gave damning evidence of the fact. She rushed
downstairs, bursting with her dreadful intelligence. In the hall she met Cecil,
delightedly waving a telegram in his hand. "Hurrah! Aunt Matilda!" he shouted.
"Such news! 'The Purple Kangaroo' has reached its twentieth edition, and a truce
is declared between the United States and Spain! Where are the others? I must
tell them that the war is over." "Bother your war!" exclaimed his aunt. "Do you
know that your father and that shameless minx, Miss Arminster, have just
eloped?" CHAPTER IV. IN WHICH THE BISHOP IS ABDUCTED. All the way from Blanford
to Dullhampton the Bishop was in the best of spirits, much on the principle of a
naughty boy who, having played truant, means to enjoy his holiday to the full,
well knowing that he will be caned when it is over. Indeed his Lordship became
positively skittish, and Miss Arminster was obliged to squelch him a little, as
that young lady, for excellent reasons of her own, had no more intention of
becoming the mistress of Blanford than she had of wedding the author of "The
Purple Kangaroo." On the other hand, she realised that it was one of the old
gentleman's very rare treats, and she wanted him to have as good a time as
possible; besides which, she had always longed to take a cruise on a steam-
yacht, and now her ambition was about to be gratified. The shock of
disappointment was therefore all the greater when, on their arrival at
Dullhampton, they were met by the captain, who informed them that Lord Downton
had had a bad fall the day before and seriously sprained his ankle, so that the
party had been given up. He had sent the yacht on, however, with the request
that the Bishop would consider it at his disposal for the remainder of the week.
"Now that's exceedingly awkward," said his Lordship. "I fear we can hardly go
yachting without a chaperon." "Most certainly not," agreed Miss Arminster. "But
let's take a little sail this afternoon, and return to Blanford in time for
dinner." "That's very well thought of," said the Bishop, "and to-morrow we can
bring down some more of our party. It seems a pity we shouldn't use the yacht,
now we're here. Does that arrangement meet with your approval, captain?" "Well,
your Lordship," replied the captain, "to be honest with you, I hadn't expected
as how you'd be able to get away to-day, so I'd arranged to see my sister, who
lives here, this afternoon, and the first mate's gone up to town to order some
stores. But if you are only to be out for a few hours, as you say, my second
mate's quite capable of taking the boat for you. I wouldn't like to trust him on
a long cruise, for he's only joined a few weeks, and I know nothing about his
character. He is a first-class navigator, however, and for an afternoon in the
Solent he'll do you very well." "I'm sure we would not want to interfere with
your plans, captain," said his Lordship, "so if Miss Arminster agrees--"

"Oh my, yes," acquiesced Violet. "I don't care who takes the yacht out, so long
as we go." "Right you are," said the captain. "Steam's up, and I've ordered
lunch on board, as I thought you'd want that anyway. I'll tell Funk, the second
mate, to run out into the Solent, and then you can give your own orders. What
time will you be back?" "Oh, not later than six," replied the Bishop, as they
stepped on board Lord Downton's beautiful craft, the "Homing Pigeon." She was a
large boat and thoroughly seaworthy. Indeed her owner had made a voyage in her
to the Mediterranean, but she was built for speed also, and decidedly rakish in
cut. They were at once introduced to the second mate, and Miss Arminster thought
she had seldom seen a more unprepossessing individual. He was surly and shifty-
eyed, and she confided to the Bishop, when they were alone, that she was glad
they were not going far from land under that man's charge, for he looked like a
pirate. After glancing round the deck, which seemed charmingly arranged, they at
once descended to the cabin for lunch, for their little journey had made them
hungry. Here the captain left them with a few courteous words of excuse. A
moment later, as he was leaving the ship, he met two strangers coming on board,
laden with hand-baggage. They were, though unknown to him, the journalist and
the tramp. On asking them sharply what their business was, Marchmont replied
very glibly that he was his Lordship's valet, and that he had hired this man to
bring down the luggage from the station. "I don't think your master'll need his
traps, as he's only going out for the afternoon," said the captain. "But you'd
better take them down to the cabin, and see the porter gets off before they
start. I don't allow strangers aboard." The valet touched his hat respectfully,
and went up the gangway, followed by the obsequious porter. A moment later they
reached the deck, and no sooner had the captain disappeared round a corner than
both men approached the second mate, with whom they had a hurried and earnest
conversation, followed by an interchange of something which that officer
transferred to his trousers-pocket and jingled appreciatively. The ropes were
now cast off, and they got under way, while Marchmont stole very quietly to the
door of the hatchway which led down to the saloon where the Bishop and the
actress were unsuspectingly lunching, and softly turned the key. "Mayn't I cut
you a slice of this cold ham, my dear?" asked the Bishop in his most fatherly
tones. "Not while the pigeon-pie lasts," said his fair companion. "But you may
give me a glass of champagne, if you will. I see some going to waste in an ice-
cooler over there in the corner." "I was hoping the steward would come,"
ventured his Lordship. "Well, I hope he won't. Being tete-a-tete is much more
fun, don't you think? Give the bottle to me, and I'll show you how to open it
and not spill a drop. In some respects your education's been neglected." "I'm
afraid it has," admitted the Bishop, assisting her with his pen-knife. His
Lordship felt recklessly jovial. To lunch alone with a young lady who opened
champagne with a dexterity that bespoke considerable practice must be very
wicked, he felt certain, and he was shocked to realise that he didn't care if it
was. His years of repression were beginning to find their outlet in a natural
reaction. "Here, have a glass of champagne, and don't think about your
shortcomings," she said. "That's very nice," he replied, just tasting it.
"Nonsense!" she cried. "No heel-taps. I'm no end thirsty." "So am I," replied
his Lordship, draining his glass contentedly, and watching her fill it up again.
"What are you so pensive about?" she demanded. "There's another bottle." He had
been thinking that his sister always confined him to two glasses, but he didn't
say so, and under her skilful lead he was soon describing to her a Cowes regatta
he had once seen, in which she professed to be amazingly interested. "I tell you
what it is," she remarked a little later on. "If I had a gorgeous palace like
yours I'd have no end of a good time." "Ah," said the Bishop, who was helping
her to unfasten the second bottle of champagne, "I never thought of it in that
light." "No," returned his fair companion, "I suppose not. But you're losing
lots of fun in life, and it does seem a shame, when you would so enjoy it." "It
does," said the Bishop, sampling the fresh bottle. "But then, you see, there's
my sister, Miss Matilda--"

"Rats!" "Excuse me, I didn't catch your meaning." "Never mind my meaning. We're
talking about your sister. She's a most estimable woman, my dear Bish-- Oh,
pshaw! I can't always call you by your title." "Call me Josephus," he said. "No,
I couldn't call you that, either. It's too dreadful. I'll call you Joe." The
Bishop beamed with joy. "And I," he faltered, "may I call you Violet?" "No," she
said, "I don't think it's proper in a man of your position." "But if you call me
--Joe--"

"Well!" she cried, laughing, "we'll make a compromise. Suppose you call me 'the
Leopard'?" "To be sure," he said. "Mrs. Mackintosh spoke of you as that--er--
quadruped. But what does it mean?" "You want to know a great deal too much for a
man of your age. It's an animal that is more than once mentioned in Scripture,
and that ought to be sufficient for your purposes. So we'll have it understood
that his Lordship's Leopard is quite at his Lordship's service, if his Lordship
doesn't mind." "Mind!" he cried ecstatically, eyeing the other side of the
table. But Miss Violet intended to have the board between them. "Take another
glass of champagne, and keep quiet," she said sternly. "We're talking about your
estimable but impossible sister. My dear Joe, you'll never have any sport till
you've got rid of her." "But how shall I get rid of her?" he asked despondently.
Even champagne was not proof against the depression induced by such an appalling
thought. "Oh, send her to a course of mud-baths or a water-cure!" "I might try
it--if--if you'd help me--if you'd take her place at the palace. I mean--"

"Josephus!" she called, in such an exact imitation of his sister's tone that it
made him sit right up. "Josephus! don't say another word! I know what you mean--
and you're an old dear--and I'm not going to let you make a fool of yourself.
You're aged enough to be my father, and if your son had had his way you would
have been my father-in-law. I want to have a good time, and I want you to have a
good time; but that isn't the proper manner in which to set about it. No, you
send the old lady packing, for the good of her health, and Mrs. Mackintosh and
I'll help you and Cecil entertain, and we'll have a dance, and a marquee, and
lots of punch. I dare say you've never been to a dance in your life," she
rattled on, not giving him a chance to blunder out excuses. "I'm not such an old
fogey as you think me," he began. "But I want to say--er--Miss--Leopard--"

"Oh, no, you don't," she interrupted. "You want to forget what you've said, and
so do I. We must talk about something else. What were you saying about a dance?"
"No, no, not a dance," he replied, resigning himself to his fate. "But once,"
lowering his voice, "not long ago either, when I was in town, I--I'm sure you
won't believe it-- I went to a theatre." This last triumphantly. "Oh, you sad
dog!" she cried. "You didn't!" He nodded his head affirmatively. "And what was
the piece?" "'The Sign of the Cross.'" "What, that gruesome show, where every
one's slaughtered or chewed up by lions! You ought to have gone to the Empire."
"It wasn't far from Leicester Square," he said deprecatingly. "Not near enough
to be very wicked," she retorted. "But, say, I'll tell you something if you'll
promise never, never to reveal it." "The word of a bishop--" he began. "Oh,
nonsense! You're not a bishop at present, you're just Joe. Well, here it is: I'm
an actress!" "You--are--an--actress!" "Fact! I'm quite harmless. If you keep six
feet from me there's not the slightest danger of contamination." Then, seeing
his look of astonished bewilderment, she burst into a peal of ringing laughter,
crying:

"Why, to look at you, one would think I'd told you that I was a Gorgon!" "No,
no," he said, stammering. "I--I'm delighted. I always really wanted to meet an
actress--but--er--I hardly know what to say--"

"Don't say anything. Just be your dear unsophisticated self, or you'll be a
bore. Cecil didn't dare tell you who I was, for fear you'd be shocked. Come on,
let's go up on deck. It's close down here." "It is," admitted his Lordship,
whose temperature had risen with his consumption of champagne, and added:

"We should be well out by this time, for we seem to have been going at great
speed." "Isn't it glorious!" she cried. "I wonder what they're doing at
Blanford. I guess your telegram was an eye-opener." "Bless my soul!" exclaimed
the Bishop, fishing a form out of his pocket. "I forgot to send it." "What, do
you mean to say they don't know what's become of us?" "I never said a word." "My
hat!" she cried. "Won't you get a wigging to-night?" Then, seeing his evident
discomfiture, she added:

"Never mind, I'll take it with you; and if she turns nasty we'll put a flea in
her ear about those mud-baths. Come, let's have our fun, anyway." And she put
her hand on the cabin door. "Why, it's stuck!" she exclaimed. "I can't open it."
The Bishop grasped the handle. "It isn't stuck!" he cried, shaking it. "It's
locked!" *       *       *       *       *

While events had been progressing in the cabin, others of no less importance
were taking place on deck. Once they were well off the land, Funk lost no time
in calling a meeting of the crew of the yacht, who formed a circle around him.
"Now, my hearties," he said, introducing Marchmont, "this gentleman's got a word
to say to you which it's worth your while to hear." And he put him in the centre
of the ring. "Mates," began the journalist, fitting his speech to the audience
he was addressing, "I'm a plain man of few words, and I've come to you about a
plain matter. Mr. Funk will tell you I'm speaking the truth; and you know this
gentleman," indicating the tramp. The crowd growled gutturally. They appreciated
the tramp's generous offers of liquor, but not his society. "Well," continued
Marchmont, ignoring the unfavourable tone, "I suppose you'd all like to see the
Yankees lick the Dons." "Ay, ay, you're right there," muttered a burly tar.
"Good for you! We're all of the same family, and blood's thicker than water. Of
course you want the boys in blue to win; and that being the case, I rely on you
to help me, like true British tars, the nation's bulwarks--!" "Hear, hear!"
growled the crowd appreciatively. "Now do you know whom you've aboard to-day?"
demanded the American. "The Bishop o' Blanford, and a laidy," came the tones of
a voice whose owner evidently hailed from London. "No, you haven't," cried the
journalist excitedly. "No, you haven't! You've got two low-down Spanish spies!"
"What d'ye say, mate?" demanded the first speaker among the crew. "I'm telling
you the truth," vociferated Marchmont, lying boldly; for he feared that the
Bishop's conspiracies would go for nothing if they suspected he was really a
churchman. "I'm telling you the truth," he repeated. "And these two gentlemen,"
referring to the mate and the tramp, "will back me up. That man's no more the
Bishop of Blanford than you are! And the _lady_--well, she's on the stage when
she isn't in the pay of the Spanish Government. I've tracked them from the
States to Canada, where I saw them both a month ago, and then to England. I
don't say how they got hold of this yacht, but I ask you, where's the captain
and the first mate?" A growl of suspicion rewarded his efforts. "They took
pretty good care to get out of the way, and leave Mr. Funk and you to bear the
brunt of any breach of neutrality that these conspirators might let you in for."
The sailors began to whisper to one another, and were evidently uneasy. "Then
look at the captain's parting words!" cried the journalist. "'Go out into the
Solent,' says he, 'and the _Bishop_ will give you your sailing orders,' Sailing
orders, indeed! What would a parson know about sailing a vessel of this sort?"
One of the men nudged another at this, and he of the gruff voice gave it as his
opinion that "there was summat in it." "I'll tell you what the sailing orders
will be," shouted Marchmont. "They'll take you round the Needles, and alongside
of a Spanish cruiser. And when you get ashore, you'll all be clapped into prison
for helping the Dons." "Let's take 'em back now," came a chorus of voices. "And
let 'em go scot-free?" demanded Marchmont. "Well, what would _you_ do?" asked
the spokesman. "I?" said the journalist. "I'd hand 'em over to the first
American ship we sight, and send 'em to New York. That takes the burden off
_your_ shoulders. My man has promised you ten shillings apiece. Put 'em on board
a Yankee ship, and I'll make it a pound." And he brought up a handful of gold
from his pocket, and jingled it in their faces. It has been said that money
talks, and it undoubtedly did so in this case. Marchmont's specious arguments
sounded plausible enough, and the mate, who was a thoroughly bad lot and had
plenty of the journalist's money in his pocket, backed him up in every
particular. So the crew, after a little discussion, accepted the proposition to
a man, and the fact that the Bishop chose this unfortunate time to make an
attack on the cabin door probably helped to decide them. "You see," cried the
journalist, as it rattled on its hinges, "they're trying to break out now, and
are probably armed to the teeth." "We're with you, mates. The Yankees shall have
'em!" shouted the crowd. "Good!" he replied. "I'll see if I can induce them to
surrender quietly." And going to the cabin door, he unlocked it and entered,
closing it behind him. "Who has dared to lock us in in this unwarrantable
manner?" spluttered the Bishop, as the door opened. Then, seeing who it was, he
fell back a step, exclaiming:

"Why, Mr. Marchmont, how did you come on board?" "Never mind about that," said
the journalist shortly. "I'm here, and I locked you in; and when I tell you that
I'm thoroughly on to the whole show, you'll understand that this high-and-mighty
business doesn't go down. Got any champagne left? I'm as dry as a bone." The
Bishop was rapidly turning purple with suppressed indignation, but Miss
Arminster scornfully indicated the location of the wine-cooler. "Ah, thanks,"
said the intruder, tossing off a glass. "That's better." And he threw himself
comfortably down on a divan, saying, as he did so:

"If you two have any weapons, you might as well put them on the table.
Resistance is quite useless. I've plenty of men awaiting my signal on deck."
Violet, who in the light of this last remark suddenly understood the position,
burst into peals of laughter. "You'll find it's no laughing matter," cried the
journalist angrily. "I insist upon your instantly explaining your outrageous
conduct," said the Bishop. "I can do that in a very few words," replied
Marchmont. "As an American representative, and authorised agent of the _Daily
Leader_, the people's bulwark of defence, I arrest you both as Spanish spies."
"He must be mad!" ejaculated his Lordship. "Oh, no, he isn't. He actually
believes it!" cried Violet between her paroxysms of merriment. But her companion
would not be convinced. "My dear man," he said blandly, "you must be suffering
under some grievous delusion. I am, as you should know, having been my guest,
the Bishop of Blanford, and it is quite impossible that either I or this lady
should have any connection with a political crime. I must insist that you
release us at once, and go away quietly, or I shall be forced to use harsher
measures." "You do it very well, very well indeed," commented the journalist.
"But you can't fool me, and so you'd better give up trying." "I say," remarked
Miss Arminster to Marchmont, "you're making an awful fool of yourself." The
representative of the _Daily Leader_ shrugged his shoulders. "Won't you consent
to let us go, without threshing the whole thing out?" she asked. "What do you
take me for?" "Well, as you please," she said resignedly. "Put your questions;
we'll answer them." "Is it best to humour him?" enquired his Lordship in a low
voice. "It's the only way," she replied. "Give him string enough, and see the
cat's-cradle he'll weave out of it." "Now," said the journalist cheerfully to
the Bishop, "perhaps you'll deny that you spent a month or six weeks in the
United States this spring?" "A month," acquiesced his Lordship. "Just so. And
during that time you were supposed to be in Scotland taking a rest-cure?" "I
admit that such is the case. But how you obtained your information--"

"I got it from your sister--about the rest-cure, I mean." "Did you tell her--er
--that I was--er--in the United States?" "Yes," replied the journalist. His
Lordship heaved a deep sigh. The future, he thought, held worse things for him
than arrest and deportation. "How did you know that I was in the United States
and Canada?" he demanded. "I saw you." "Where?" "At a little station on the
borders of the two countries. You spent the night wrapped up in a blanket, and
slept under the bar." "You never--!" broke in Miss Arminster. The Bishop nodded
mournfully. So far the facts were against him, and his interlocutor's face shone
with a gleam of triumph. "But in that case--" exclaimed Violet. "Excuse me, I'll
tell the story," said Marchmont, and continued the narration. "You were roused
about five in the morning by a man breaking into the room." "So I was," admitted
the Bishop. "How did you know?" "I was asleep in the room overhead, and gave the
alarm." "That's perfectly correct," acquiesced his Lordship. "I remember the
tones of your voice. It's most astounding." "And the man who broke into the
bar," continued Violet, "was your son." It was now Marchmont's turn to be
astonished. "What!" he cried, while the Bishop ejaculated:

"Impossible!" "But it was," she insisted. "He went to get the coffee for me."
"Were you in the station, too?" demanded his Lordship. "No, I was out in a
potato-patch." "You a member of that party of political criminals who jumped off
the train!" cried the Bishop. "I heard all about it the next morning, but I
can't believe--"

"It's quite true," she assured him. "But it's too remarkable," he went on. "I'd
gone to America on purpose to find my son, of whom I'd heard nothing for a year.
And you say he was there, and--er--touched me?" "Why, didn't you see him in
Montreal?" asked Marchmont. "I sailed next day for England. I was on my way to
the steamer when the accident occurred which detained me overnight." "Why then
did you conceal the purpose of your trip?" demanded his tormentor. "My sister
was much opposed to my seeking my son," said his Lordship, colouring furiously.
"And--I--in short, I had reasons." The journalist laughed. "The story's clever,"
he said. "But I can tell a more interesting tale." And he proceeded to relate
the adventures of Cecil in the person of "the Bishop," to which his Lordship
listened with open-mouthed astonishment. "There!" concluded his captor
triumphantly. "Have you anything to say to that?" "I have," chimed in Miss
Arminster, and she gave the true version of the affair from the time Banborough
had first engaged them at the Grand Central Station. "It's a very plausible
story," said Marchmont, when she had finished, "and does credit to your
invention. But fortunately I'm in a condition to completely disprove it."
"Really?" she asked. "How so?" "I can produce a witness of the whole
transaction." "Who?" "Friend Othniel." "What! here, on board the yacht?" "Yes,"
said Marchmont, "on board this yacht. And he can prove that what I say is true."
"What? About the Bishop?" she cried, her voice quivering with suppressed
merriment. "Certainly," replied the journalist. "After his release from the
Black Maria he tells substantially your story, but gives the Bishop the part you
have carefully assigned to his innocent son." At this she once more broke into
peals of laughter, but at last, recovering her speech, managed to gasp out:

"Bring him here, and see what he says." "I will," said Marchmont, hurriedly
leaving the cabin, for her marvellous self-possession was beginning to arouse
unpleasant suspicions even in his mind. "But what does it all mean?" queried the
Bishop helplessly, after the journalist's departure. "How dare he say such
things about me! I drive a prison-van, indeed!" "I'll tell you," she replied,
striving to control her voice. "It's the greatest practical joke that ever was.
We called your son 'the Bishop,' just as a nickname, you see, and of course the
tramp heard us, and, after we dropped him in Montreal, must have blown the whole
thing to Marchmont out of spite, and, not knowing any better, he thought your
son really _was_ the Bishop." Here his Lordship became speechless, as the truth
dawned upon him; and at that moment Marchmont entered the cabin, with Friend
Othniel in tow. "There!" he said, pointing to the ecclesiastic. "Is that the
Bishop of Blanford?" "Naw," replied the tramp. "He's old enough to be his
father, he is. The Bishop I means is a young 'un." "Like this!" cried Violet,
opening the locket which Cecil had given her in Montreal, and handing it to the
tramp. "That's him to a T," said Friend Othniel. "I'd know him among a
thousand." For a moment Marchmont said nothing as he encountered the full force
of the cruel disillusion, and then with painstaking precision he turned and
kicked the tramp up the entire flight of cabin stairs. "Now," remarked the
Bishop, "perhaps you'll allow us to go free." "No!" cried the journalist,
slamming the door. "I've wasted heaps of cash and no end of time over this wild-
goose-chase, but the _Daily Leader_ shall have its scoop yet! If you aren't
conspirators, I'll make you so, in spite of yourselves! You _shall_ be Spanish
spies!" CHAPTER V.

IN WHICH THE BISHOP EATS JAM TART, AND MISS MATILDA HUMBLE-PIE. "Now," remarked
the Bishop to Miss Arminster, as Marchmont quitted the cabin after this last
astounding remark, "Now I'm certain he's mad." "Oh, no," replied the lady, "it's
merely journalistic enterprise. I don't blame him for being disappointed. It
must be hard to find that we're not conspirators, after all." "But why should he
wish to make us so?" "You dear stupid old Joe!" she exclaimed. "You haven't the
remotest inkling of what American journalism means. It's sensation first, last,
and altogether. Think of a bishop, and an English bishop at that, posing as an
agent of the Spanish secret service, and eloping with an actress on somebody
else's yacht. Why, I can shut my eyes and see the headlines. They're almost
certain to print them in red ink. There's fame for you!" "But why should he wish
to print it if it's not the truth?" "Truth! My dear Bishop, who said anything
about truth? We were speaking of news, and--journalistic enterprise." At this
moment the door again burst open, and Marchmont flung into the cabin. "There!"
he said, with a tone of triumph, "we've sighted an American steamer down
channel, and have hoisted the Spanish flag. We're pursuing her, and very
presently we shall be captured, and you'll be surrendered." "I suppose," began
the Bishop, "that, to a man so devoid of moral consciousness as you appear to
be, no arguments of mine--"

"Don't waste your breath," broke in Miss Arminster. "They wouldn't." "Why, I'm
sorry to cause you any inconvenience," said the journalist amiably, "but you
see, my paper's simply panting for sensation, and when they hear about this
little racket they'll sell extras till they can't see straight." "And what, may
I ask, will happen when the truth comes out?" demanded his Lordship severely.
"Oh, the war'll probably be over by the time you reach New York, and you'll
cease to be interesting," replied Marchmont. "Besides, we'll have had our scoop,
and most likely, when the _Daily Leader_ finds there's no case against you
they'll give you a return ticket. The management's generally pretty liberal."
"Well, I must say," spluttered the Bishop, "that of all the brazen--
unconscionable--!" "Why did you raise the Spanish flag?" interrupted Miss
Arminster. "That was my idea," said the journalist, "and I'm rather proud of it.
You see, we could hardly reverse the Union Jack as a sign of distress, and then
go full speed ahead, but I don't think an American ship would resist taking a
Spanish prize; and as soon as they get within firing range we'll run up a flag
of truce. By the way," he continued, becoming quite courteous, now that he felt
he had them in his power, "why do you remain in this stuffy cabin? I shall be
very glad to have you up on deck, provided you'll give me your parole." "What,
not to escape?" asked Violet. "Did you think we were going to jump overboard and
swim ashore?" "No. I mean that you should give your parole not to be anything
but Spaniards." "I am afraid we couldn't manage that," she replied. "The Bishop
doesn't look nearly ferocious enough." "I absolutely refuse to become a party to
this deception!" said his Lordship. "Oh, I don't ask you to do that," returned
Marchmont, "only to promise that you'll not try and enlist the sympathies of the
crew in your behalf." "I shall not promise anything," said the Bishop, "nor
shall I allow this lady to do so. I'm a man of peace, but if ever I get hold of
you on dry land I'll horsewhip you, if it costs me my see; and if you don't
leave this cabin at once I'll treat you as you treated your friend. You are a
thorough blackguard, and not fit to associate with gentlemen!" The journalist
started to say something, but, remembering that his accuser was muscular,
thought better of it, shrugged his shoulders, and went out silently, locking the
door behind him. "There!" said his Lordship, "I can breathe more freely now."
Miss Arminster made no reply, for the excellent reason that her head was out of
a port-hole, and she could not hear clearly what was said. Presently she pulled
it in again, crying, as she did so:

"Oh, do look! This is great sport! The American ship is running away from us!"
Such was indeed the case. The vessel they were overhauling was a small tramp
steamer, which had evidently found courage, through the general incapacity of
the Spanish navy and the fancied security of neutral waters, to flaunt the Stars
and Stripes. It was therefore most disconcerting to find herself suddenly
pursued in the English Channel by a craft which had every appearance of being a
Spanish gunboat. No sooner had she caught a glimpse of the red and yellow flag
of her enemy than she crowded on to her yards every stitch of canvass she
possessed, in the hope of obtaining some advantage from the light breeze that
was blowing, while the black clouds of smoke which belched from her single
funnel showed that her engines were being driven to their utmost capacity. She
having a long lead and the combined assistance of wind and steam, the distance
between the pursuer and the pursued decreased slowly, and it soon became evident
that it was to be a stern chase, which is proverbially a long chase. The yacht,
therefore, turned about in search of some fresh enemy to whom she might
surrender, and in this fortune favored her, for down the Channel came a great
liner, whose name, albeit she flew temporarily the flag of another nation,
proclaimed her to be an American ship, with an American captain and crew. Those
on board the "Homing Pigeon" now adopted different tactics, and an inverted
British ensign replaced the banner of the Dons. As the yacht stood directly in
the path of the oncoming ocean greyhound, and flew signals of distress which she
could not disregard, the great ship was forced to heave to. Marchmont hastened
to convey the news to his prisoners in the cabin, saying that he considered them
very fortunate, as they had every prospect of a speedy and pleasant voyage, and
cautioning them at the same time, as he led the way up the cabin stairs, that
resistance was futile, and that any remarks of theirs to the crew would only be
so much waste of breath. To all of which neither deigned to answer a word,
realising that in their present precarious position silence was not only the
most dignified but also the safest course. As they reached the deck the great
liner was almost abreast of them, and gradually came to a standstill with clouds
of pent-up steam pouring from her safety-valves. "What do you want?" bawled her
chief officer through a megaphone, his voice sounding very large and clear from
the great height above them. "We've two prisoners of war, Spanish spies, and we
wish to hand them over!" shouted the mate in return. "This isn't an American
ship," came the reply. "Yes, it is," howled Marchmont; "we know better! You
belong to the 'Pink Star' line." The chief officer conferred with the captain.
"It's Mason and Slidell the other way round," he said. "I wouldn't touch 'em
with a ten-foot pole. Besides--" and here he seized the megaphone from his
subordinate and yelled through it:

"You infernal idiots! don't you know the war with Spain is over? We've declared
a truce!" "I don't believe it," cried Marchmont, shaking his fist at the great
steamship in a paroxysm of disappointed rage. "It's only an excuse to shirk your
duty! We've brought them out to you, and you've got to take them! I'll report
you to the government! I'll--!" The sharp ring of the engine-room bell from the
liner's bridge was the only reply vouchsafed him, and a moment later the big
ship forged ahead, her captain very red in the face and swearing like a trooper:
for the most precious thing on board a racer of that class is time, and the
"Homing Pigeon" had been wasting it. The Bishop, noting the sheepish faces of
the mate and his two fellow conspirators, and the lowering glances of the crew,
turned to Miss Arminster, saying:

"We'd better return to the cabin, my dear. I think there's going to be trouble."
The little actress followed his Lordship's gaze, and descended without a word of
protest. She thought so, too. They had hardly entered the saloon, when there
came a respectful knock at the door, and an elderly seaman entered, ducking his
head. "Well, my good man," said his Lordship, "what can I do for you?" "Meanin'
no disrespect, sir, be you really the Bishop of Blanford?" "Certainly I am,"
that gentleman replied. "You see my dress, and," as a happy thought struck him,
"here's one of my cards to prove my identity." And he handed the sailor a bit of
pasteboard with his title engraved thereon. "And the lady?" asked the seaman.
"The lady is no more connected with this absurd charge than I am," pursued the
Bishop. "You've been grievously misled by your mate and these two strangers. But
if you'll take us safe to the nearest port, I'll speak a word in your favour to
your master, Lord Downton, who's an intimate friend of mine. Can you read?"
"Yes, your honour." "Then here's a letter from his Lordship, which I fortunately
have by me, requesting me to join his yacht. Read it yourself, and show it to
your fellows as a proof of who I am." And he handed him the missive. The sailor
took it, ducked again, and retired silently, and there was presently a great
shuffling of feet on the deck above. "What do you think they're doing?" asked
Violet. "I trust they're coming to their senses--and if--" But his remarks were
interrupted by a most terrific row overhead, shouts, blows, and curses. "Bless
my soul!" exclaimed the Bishop. "What can be the matter?" "They're squaring
accounts with Marchmont, Friend Othniel, and the mate, I guess," she replied,
"and I hope they'll half kill them." "Fie, fie! my dear Leopard--most
unchristian. I must certainly go and--"

"No, you mustn't do anything of the sort! Stay right where you are. We're in hot
enough water already." And suiting the action to the word, she pushed him back
on to the divan. "Well, really--!" remarked the Bishop, and collapsed amiably.
Presently the sounds of commotion ceased, and gave way to laughter, but laughter
with a certain grim note in it that boded ill for those laughed at. After a
little, there came another knock at the cabin door, and this time quite a
deputation entered the saloon, the sailor who had first visited them being the
spokesman. "Having disposed of those gents as you suggested--" he began. "No,
no!" the Bishop hastened to disclaim, "I suggested nothing." "Well," said the
seaman, "we've fixed 'em, anyway. And now we're heading for the nearest port,
which the same's Weymouth, and we hopes you'll overlook what's gone before, and
come on deck and take command of this yacht." "I will certainly come on deck,"
replied the Bishop. "But as to assuming command of the ship, I hardly feel
qualified. Is there not some one among you--?" "I'm bo'sn, please your honour,"
volunteered the speaker. "Ah," said the Bishop blandly, "then I appoint you."
And as the men fell back, he escorted Miss Arminster upstairs. As they appeared
on deck, a striking scene met their eyes. Three wretched figures were triced up
to the mainmast. They had only such remnants of clothes remaining on their
persons as decency demanded, and they had all evidently made a recent
acquaintance with the ship's tar-barrel and slush-bucket. As his Lordship and
Miss Arminster appeared, the crew approached, expecting a speech. "I hardly know
what to say," began the Bishop to Violet. "Let me speak to them, will you?" she
asked, her eyes sparkling. "I understand human nature pretty well. I have to, in
my profession." His Lordship nodded assent, and a moment later she had sprung on
to the cabin hatch, a most entrancing little figure, and instantly commanded the
attention and admiration of her audience. "Mates!" she cried, in her clear
ringing voice, "mates, I want a word with you." "Speak up, and welcome!" called
some one in the crowd, while the boatswain, nudging a comrade in the ribs,
remarked under his breath:

"My eye, but she's a stunner!" Silence having been obtained, she continued:

"I've only this to say. We've all been made fools of. Those gentlemen tied up to
the mast made fools of you, and you've certainly made fools of them." A loud
laugh greeted this sally. "And," she resumed, "if it ever gets out that his
Lordship the Bishop of Blanford and myself were carried off as Spanish spies,
we'll never hear the last of it. Now let's all keep silence for the sake of the
others. Put us ashore at Weymouth, and we'll say to Lord Downton that it was our
wish to be landed there. He won't know about the occurrences of this day, unless
some of you tell him. You might leave the journalist and the tramp at Weymouth,
too. I guess they'll have had enough of the sea to last them for some time. And
oh, by the way, I suppose Mr. Marchmont intended to pay you for this. Perhaps
you'll see that the division is properly carried out." "Ay, ay!" came from
twenty throats, followed by a rousing cheer. And so it happened that they
reached _terra firma_ about six in the afternoon. But Weymouth, while it is
geographically not far distant from Blanford, is miles away by the railroad and
its connections, and they did not reach the palace till nearly midnight.
Everything was dark and still, and as they stood shivering in the porch, the
Bishop remarked, producing his latch-key:

"Do you know I--I'm really afraid to open the door." She gave his hand a
reassuring squeeze, and they entered softly. "Is there anything I can get for
the Leopard, before she retires?" he asked apologetically, as they crossed the
stone-paved floor of the palace by the aid of a single bedroom candle, which
only served to accentuate the surrounding darkness. "No, thank you, I'm all
right," she faltered, putting her foot on the first step of the stairs. And
then, without the slightest warning, she burst into tears. His Lordship,
completely bewildered at this unexpected turn of affairs, patted her on the
head, saying: "Dear, dear!" much as he would have done to obstreperous babies
suspicious of baptism. But the fair Violet wept on. "What is it?" said the
Bishop. "What have I done?" "You haven't done anything," she replied between her
sobs, "but I--I'm so dreadfully hungry." "Dear me!" exclaimed his Lordship, "I
forgot all about dinner." It was quite true that, in his anxiety to catch trains
and make a series of bewildering connections, the question of food had entirely
escaped his memory, and, now he came to think of it, he was ravenously hungry
himself. "I'm so sorry," he said helplessly. "We must see what we can find." It
was years since he had dared to investigate his own pantries; but under the spur
of Miss Arminster's necessities he achieved prodigies of valour, even breaking
into that holy of holies, his sister's jam-closet. The little actress aided and
abetted him, creating havoc among jars of sardines, olives, and caviare. And
then, while they were in the midst of their midnight orgy, a figure appeared
before them--a figure clad in an indescribable dressing-gown and carrying a
bedroom candle. "Josephus," said the apparition, "is that you?" "Yes, my dear,"
replied the Bishop, with his mouth full of jam tart, "it is." "I wonder you've
the face to enter the house!" said his sister. "His own house! That's good,"
commented Miss Arminster from the midst of sardines. "I admit that the
circumstances are unusual," remarked the Bishop, cutting himself another large
slice of the pastry, "but the train service is most irregular, and, as you can
see, it was necessary to bring the Leopard home to-night, and so--"

"Josephus!" broke in his sister, "there are no leopards in this country, and I
_can_ see that to the other sins you have undoubtedly committed you have added
the vice of--"

But she got no further, for the Bishop, casting a glance at each of the two
women, decided that now or never was salvation at hand, and said brusquely:

"Matilda, go to bed at once!" It was the first time he had ever spoken to her in
tones of authority, and his sister, not believing her ears, returned to the
charge. "And as for that shameless minx--" she continued; but his Lordship again
interrupted, remarking severely:

"Matilda, go to bed instantly!" But the spinster was not yet defeated.
"Josephus!" she began, in her most approved style. "Go to bed!" repeated the
Bishop sharply. For one moment she wavered. Then, realising that under the
present conditions resistance was worse than useless, she turned slowly upon her
heel, and marched upstairs with the air of a martyr going to the stake. "You
were right," said his Lordship moodily, as he disposed of the last piece of pie-
crust. "Right about what?" asked Violet. "Mud-baths," returned the Bishop.
CHAPTER VI. IN WHICH MISS ARMINSTER PROPOSES TO MARRY AGAIN. Cecil and Miss
Matilda breakfasted alone the next morning. This was not by intention, but by
fate. Violet and the Bishop, for obvious reasons, kept their respective rooms.
Mrs. Mackintosh had felt it her duty to breakfast with, and comfort, her friend
in distress, likewise to receive an early account of the doings of the day
before; while Smith and Spotts, hearing that the fugitives had returned, took an
early breakfast and adjourned to the neighboring golf-links. Cecil, however, who
slept well, came down at the usual hour, quite unconscious of what was
impending, and calmly walked into the trap. After the ancient butler had passed
the tea and toast, and then withdrawn, as was his wont, leaving them to carve
out their own salvation, Miss Matilda lost no time in opening up the contest.
She had been at swords' points with her nephew ever since the evening before, as
a result of his stoutly maintaining his father's innocence, and the manner in
which she reported her midnight meeting would have made even Marchmont envious.
"And now of course he'll have to marry her," she wound up her recital. "Good
heavens! I hope not!" ejaculated Cecil. "I'm glad," remarked his aunt stiffly,
"that we've at least one point of agreement." "Oh, we are quite agreed on that,"
he returned. "It would never do at all; in fact it's quite impossible." "You
know, then?" she demanded. "Know what?" he asked cautiously. "That she's been
married dozens of times already." "I don't think I can subscribe to more than
half a dozen. But Miss Arminster certainly does seem to have a fondness for that
sort of thing." "And in the face of such scandalous proceedings do you consider
her a fit person to marry your poor misguided father?" "I've told you I don't
approve," he said, and added: "How did you come to know about Miss Arminster's
marriages?" "Mr. Marchmont told me." "Confound him!" "Cecil! Mr. Marchmont's a
gentleman." "He's a mischief-maker of the first water." "Do not let us waste
time in discussing his character. The important question is, what are we to do
about your father's marriage?" "Stop it." "But how?" she asked. "Shall I speak?"
"No, no; leave it to me," he said. "I'll undertake to settle the matter. If you
saw the Bishop, you'd only irritate him." "He told me to go to bed, last night,
after that woman had insulted me." "Insulted you? I thought you told me she'd
nothing to say for herself." "Her presence was an insult, and one of us leaves
this house to-day," replied his aunt, and swept out of the room. Cecil gulped
down his tea, and, ringing the bell, sent an urgent message to Miss Arminster,
requesting a meeting in his aunt's boudoir, which, considering the purpose of
the interview, he was sure Miss Matilda would not object to put at her disposal.
Violet received him in about twenty minutes, apologising for her charming tea-
gown, on the ground of being somewhat seedy. "Our supper last night was rather
extraordinary, you know," she said. "I've only heard one version," he replied.
"Miss Matilda's?" she asked, laughing. He nodded. "I fancy it was lurid enough,"
she went on; "but your good father's out of leading-strings this time, and no
mistake." "Tell me all about it," he said. "I'm most anxious to know." "Of
course you are," she returned. "So here goes." Banborough enjoyed the recital
immensely, and laughed immoderately at certain passages. "So the governor knows
all about our adventures?" he said, when she had finished. "Did he seem much
upset?" "Only about not recognising you when you blacked his eye under the bar."
"What a good old chap he is! Just think of his coming all that way to hunt me
up! I wish he could have some fun out of life." "We must try and help him to do
so," she said. "Yes," he replied, suddenly recollecting the object of his
mission. "It's just that that I've come about. You see he's awfully
conscientious, and when he's thought things over a bit, helped by my aunt's
amiable suggestions, he'll come to the conclusion that he ought to marry you,
you know--and so--well, he'll try to do it," he ended lamely, hoping she would
see the point without further elucidation on his part. She was quick to take him
up. "And you don't think that's just the best way for him to have a good time?
Sour grapes--eh, my son?" "No, no; only he's certain to propose to you."
"Supposing he has done so?" "Well--did you accept him?" "What do you think?" she
asked. "I don't quite see how you could--under the circumstances." "Oh, he'd
only had two bottles of champagne," she said, purposely misunderstanding him
from pure joy of seeing him flounder. "I didn't mean that," he went on. "But,
anyway, his conscience will reassert itself, and he'll probably propose again
this morning--ponderously." "And you're afraid I might accept?" "I'm sure you'd
make a most charming step-mamma," he replied, "only--"

"Only what?" "Only the--the others might object, mightn't they?" "The others?"
"All the men you've married," he blurted out, "if you will have it." "I see,"
she said meditatively. "And you don't want to run the 'dear Bishop' in for
another scandal." "Of course, if you choose to put it that way--"

"It's the way you'd put it if you only had the pluck," she retorted. "Are you
awfully angry with me?" he asked, looking at her. "Not a bit," she replied.
"From your point of view it's quite justifiable, I suppose, and I'm only
considering the best way out of the dilemma." "Are there several?" "There's only
one that I care to choose." "And that is?" "I shall marry again." "Good heavens!
not--!" "Not your father, no; some one else." "But surely--!" "You see," she
continued calmly, ignoring his interruption, "if I marry some one at once your
father can't have any feeling of--shall we say responsibility? And it'll not be
necessary for me to go into what Miss Matilda would call 'my shameful past.'"
"But I really couldn't allow--"

"Oh, I'm not going to marry you either, so you needn't be alarmed. Can't you
make some suggestions to help me out?" "I am afraid you must excuse me," he
said, fast becoming scandalised at her matter-of-fact way of approaching the
subject. "Well, of course," she went on thoughtfully, "there are all your
father's chaplains, but they're young, and prone to take things seriously. No, I
don't think they'd do. And there's the butler. No, he wouldn't answer, either."
"Perhaps Miss Matilda would lend you Professor Smith." "No," she said, "I don't
think I'd have the heart to deprive her of him. On the whole, I think I'll marry
Mr. Spotts. He's nice--and handy." "But mightn't he have something to say?"
began Banborough. "Probably," admitted Violet; "but he generally does what he's
told, and as he isn't married to any one else, I dare say he'll prove amenable
when he understands the position. I'll try and see him this morning, and," as a
brilliant idea struck her, "your father shall perform the ceremony. I never was
married by a Bishop before. Won't it be jolly!" "You surely can't seriously
intend--" began Cecil. "Yes, I do. Now don't be stupid, but run along and let me
finish my toilet." And she ran out of the room. Banborough walked away in a
maze. He had thought to straighten matters out, and he had only got them into a
far worse tangle. That Miss Arminster had no conscientious scruples about adding
another husband to her quota was bad enough, but that his innocent, unsuspecting
father should be allowed to disgrace his cloth by solemnising such a marriage
was really more than he could stand. In his righteous wrath he determined that
the Bishop should know the whole truth, soothing his conscience by the thought
that if he did not tell him, Miss Matilda would. In the hall of the palace,
however, he ran across Spotts, laden with the implements of golf, and all
unconscious of his impending fate. "Look here, old man," said Cecil, "I want to
have five minutes' chat with you." "I am quite at your service," replied his
friend. "In fact I was just coming to look you up myself. Now that the war's
over, I must really be thinking of going away, as I've imposed long enough
already on your hospitality." "Oh, it isn't about that I want to see you," said
Banborough. "It's about your getting married." "My getting married?" queried
Spotts. "Yes. It seems there's a lady who has matrimonial designs on you. I
thought it was only the part of a friend to warn you in due season." "If it's
your aunt," returned the actor, "I'm very much obliged. I think I could manage
to get packed up and leave by the afternoon train." "No, no; it isn't so bad as
that," said his host. "Or, rather, it's worse. Miss Arminster has you under
consideration." "As a husband?" "Yes. I think she means to marry you to-morrow
or next day, and have my father perform the ceremony." "Oh, I see. And you've
some feeling about it." "Well, yes," admitted Cecil, "I'm afraid I have." "I
suppose you'd like to take my place?" "No, it isn't that either. Yon don't seem
to see the point. Miss Arminster wants to marry _you_." "Well, isn't that a
question between Miss Arminster and myself?" "Naturally. But then she's married
pretty frequently, hasn't she? Of course, if all her husbands are dead--"

"Oh, no," said Spotts. "I don't think she's ever lost a husband." "But you
surely can't contemplate--" began Cecil. "Well, you see," contended the actor,
"this is the first time she's ever asked me to marry her, and one can't be so
ungallant as to refuse a lady." "And you'll really add yourself to her list?"
Spotts shrugged his shoulders. "My dear fellow," he said, "I don't want to
appear rude, but this interference in my prospective matrimonial affairs seems
to me ill-timed. Miss Arminster hasn't as yet proposed to me, and if she does,
I'll probably consent to oblige her. Anyway, it's doing you a favour, as I
suppose your father would wish to marry her if I didn't." And turning on his
heel, he walked away. As he ascended the stairs, he met Violet coming down. They
were standing on the broad landing, and for the moment were quite alone and out
of earshot. "I say!" burst out the actor. "Do you know I have just been warned
against you by your friend Banborough. A joke's a joke, but this is going too
far." "I know, Alvy," she said, "I know, and I'm awfully sorry. But it's almost
over." "I hope it is," he replied. "I have held an equivocal position for
months, and it isn't pleasant. Why, I've practically seen nothing of you." "It
hasn't been pleasant for me either, old man. But, to speak frankly, you know as
well as I do that it's been largely a sentimental interest which has caused
Cecil to get us all out of this scrape. However, if he doesn't tell his father
to-day--and I tried hard enough to force him to do so this morning--I shall."
"Good! Then his Lordship's Leopard will be free," said Spotts. And pressing her
hand, he proceeded on his way upstairs. In the face of his two interviews, Cecil
felt he had no option but to refer the whole matter to the Bishop, whom he found
in his study. He received a somewhat grim reception from the old gentleman, to
whom a sleepless night had afforded ample opportunity for reflecting on the
vagaries of his son, to which he, not altogether unjustly, attributed his
adventures of the preceding day. After formal salutations had been exchanged,
the younger man, feeling that a disagreeable business was the better over, lost
no time in coming to the point. "I don't know that there's anything to be said
about the past, father," he began. "I should think there was a great deal to be
said," returned his Lordship brusquely. "But this is perhaps not the best time
to say it. I've been told a very astonishing story by Miss Arminster." "About
the Black Maria and--the Spanish plot?" "About your wretched novel, sir!" "Ah,
yes. Well, I corroborate it all, word for word. Miss Arminster told me about it
this morning." "You've seen her, then?" "Yes. We had a chat concerning a number
of things. But, as you suggest, we might reserve the discussion of our joint
American experiences till another occasion, so I won't mention them beyond
apologising to you for having blacked your eye under the bar; though of course I
could hardly have supposed that your ecclesiastical duties would have placed you
in just that position." "Say, rather, the search for an unregenerate son,"
suggested the Bishop, with a twinkle in his eye which showed him to be in better
humour. "Well, anyway, you gave as good as you got," said Cecil. "My ribs were
sore for a week afterwards." "Ah," replied his Lordship. "I thought I must have
landed you one. I haven't quite forgotten the athletics of my college days."
"Then we're quits," returned Cecil. "But it was more than good of you to come
out there and look for me. A father who could do all that deserves a somewhat
better son than I've been in the past; and in the future--"

"Don't say it, Cecil. I know it." And the Bishop gripped his hand in a way that
caused the mental and moral atmosphere to clear instantly. "And now," said his
son, "I want to talk about Miss Arminster." "It's the subject nearest my heart,"
replied his father. "I asked her to marry me at Montreal," Cecil remarked
simply. "So I inferred from what she said on the yacht," said his Lordship. "And
you proposed to her yesterday." "Did she tell you?" "Yes." "Well?" "Well, the
fact is she doesn't want to marry either of us." The Bishop nodded his head
despondently. "But," continued the younger man, "she contemplates marrying some
one else." "Ah," said his Lordship, "I'm heartily glad she proposes to _marry_--
after yesterday." "Quite so, and she means to ask you to perform the ceremony."
"Isn't that rather--"

"Rubbing it in?" suggested Cecil. "So it seemed to me." "Who is the--er--
prospective bride-groom?" "Spotts." "He seems a good fellow." "Yes, but--will
you forgive me if I speak frankly? There can't be any feeling of jealousy
between us; we've both been worsted." "What do you wish to say?" "That I'm
afraid this marriage must not be permitted. You see, Miss Arminster isn't quite
what she seems." "If you're going to say anything against that young lady--!"
began his Lordship angrily. "You forget," said his son, "I wanted to marry her."
His father remembered; and remembering, said:

"Proceed." "Well, I found out, for myself I mean, that Miss Arminster had been
married a number of times." "A number of times!" "Half a dozen at least. Perhaps
more." "Impossible!" "She admitted as much to me." "But surely--!" "As far as I
know, none of her husbands has died." "In America," began the Bishop, "the
divorce laws are lax, and perhaps--"

"Oh, no, I'm sure she hasn't been divorced. I don't think she'd approve of it."
"But then--it means--"

"Yes, that's just the point. And so another marriage with this Mr. Spotts--"

"Must be stopped at all costs!" cried his Lordship, growing very red in the face
with agitation. "I thought you'd feel so," said his son. "And that's why I
ventured--"

At this moment Miss Matilda entered the room. "What are you talking about,
Josephus?" she demanded, assuming a domination of which she felt by no means
sure. "Did I hear you mention that hussy's name?" "I was speaking," said the
Bishop, "of _Miss Arminster_. Cecil tells me she's to marry Mr. Spotts." "That's
impossible," snapped Miss Matilda. "What do you mean?" asked her brother. "I
mean what I say. While you were shamelessly gallivanting down the Channel, I
went over to the little church near the ruined abbey which you visited the day
you met Mr. Marchmont, and there I found a record of the marriage, in 1895, of
this _person_ who calls herself _Miss_ Arminster, and I say she can't marry Mr.
Spotts." "Why not?" "Because she's married to him already!" CHAPTER VII. IN
WHICH MISS ARMINSTER VERIFIES THE PROVERB. The Bishop was pacing his garden. He
was far from happy. It is true he had not been worsted in his encounter with his
sister. There had been a drawn battle, and he had retired with dignity,
conceding nothing but that he would ask Miss Arminster to come to his study at
noon and explain her position. He could not believe the charges against the
charming Violet, but nevertheless he felt decidedly uncomfortable: for even if
she cleared herself, she was still married, and the palace lacked a mistress. It
was easy to say that Miss Matilda should be deposed, but who should take her
place? Not another man's wife, certainly. For the first time in all these years,
his Lordship realised how lonely he had been. He should have remarried long
before, and indeed even so unworldly a person as he knew that more than one
young lady in Blanford would have viewed with complacency the prospect of
becoming Mrs. Bishop. A young wife, however, even as attractive as the fair
Violet, was not, he told himself, exactly what he wanted. He had tried a period
of double rule in which his sister was the power behind the throne, and it was
infinitely worse than the present regime. No; if he took another helpmate, she
must be a person of strong will, some one who could hold her own against all
comers, some one who should have an inexhaustible fund of sympathy for his work,
some one whose appreciation of the exalted position of the Bishop of Blanford
should be so great as to blind her, occasionally at least, to those minor faults
to which, Scripture tells us, all flesh is heir. It was at just this point in
his meditations that his Lordship, turning sharply round the corner of a large
gooseberry-bush, came suddenly upon Mrs. Mackintosh. Their surprise was mutual,
for the good lady had evidently been gardening, and was suffering from the
rigour of the game. "That head man of yours is a duffer," she said sharply,
pointing a very earthy trowel at the unconscious figure of the gardener, who was
busy in the middle distance digging potatoes. "A man," she continued, "who calls
a plain, every-day squash a vegetable marrow isn't fit to run a well-ordered
truck-patch; though it's no more than might be expected in a country where they
sell bread by the yard, and flour by the gallon. And what, I should like to
know, is a 'punnet'?" "I'm afraid, madam, I must confess my ignorance," replied
the Bishop. "I thought as much," she retorted. "And yet they put you in command
of a diocese. Your gardener said to me this morning: 'I'll pick a "punnet" of
strawberries to-day.' 'You'll do nothing of the kind,' I told him. 'Pick them in
a Christian basket, or not at all.'" His Lordship laughed. "It's some sort of
measure, I imagine," he remarked. "I shouldn't wonder. And your cook's just as
bad. She asked me yesterday if I liked jugged hare. 'Let me see your jug,' said
I, 'and then I'll tell you.' And as sure's I'm a sinner, she told me she never
used one for that dish!" "Now you speak of it," said his Lordship, "I don't
think I ever saw one myself. But what are you doing this morning?"
"Straightening the peas." "Straightening the peas?" he asked, thoroughly
mystified. "Yes, they're all waggly. When I plant my garden I take a string and
two pegs and plant the seed along a line; but these just seem to be put in
anyhow." "Is it good for the peas?" asked the Bishop suspiciously, as he saw
them being rooted up and reset. "I can't say," she returned sharply. "But things
ought to be straight at an episcopal palace, if they are anywhere." "So they
should," he admitted mournfully, "but it's far from being the case. That's why I
came out to consult you." "Go ahead, then. You talk, and I'll dig." And while
the plants were being arranged to an ecclesiastical standard, he retailed to her
the charges against Violet. "Do you believe them?" she asked, jamming her trowel
up to its hilt in the soft earth. "Of course I do not." "Right you are," she
said. "I know the whole story, and it's nothing to be ashamed of, I give you my
word." "You relieve me immensely." "It's merely American enterprise," continued
the old lady. "That's why they call her the Leopard." "The Leopard-- I don't
understand. She asked me to call her that." "Well, I won't steal her thunder.
She'll tell you herself." "But she is married?" "Oh, yes." The Bishop sighed.
"That disappoints you?" said Mrs. Mackintosh thoughtfully, balancing a pea-plant
in her hand. "Yes; at least I'd hoped--"

"I know. She told me. We haven't any secrets from each other." "You see,"
continued his Lordship, "if my sister leaves me, I must have some one to take
her place; otherwise--"

"She won't go." "Yes," said the Bishop; "that's just the point." "You ought to
marry at once." "I feel that myself; but then, you see, there's no one who would
care to marry me--no one at least who--"

"You don't want a young chit." "No," said his Lordship. "Somebody more like
you." Mrs. Mackintosh paused in her gardening. "Look here," she said. "Are you
going to propose to me next?" "I--was--thinking of it," admitted the Bishop. "As
a last resource?" "My dear Mrs. Mackintosh!" "I don't know as I ever could be a
bishopess," replied that lady, inadvertently resetting a pea-plant upside down.
"There's Jonah," said the Bishop, resorting to diplomacy. "I shall never be able
to complete that last volume without the spur of your appreciative criticism."
"Well," she replied, partially relenting, "I'd do a good deal for--Jonah." "Then
you will!" he cried. "I've one row of those peas left," she returned, "and when
I've reset them I'll give you your answer. That'll be in fifteen minutes. Now go
away, or you'll fidget round, and I sha'n't get 'em straight." And without
another word she resumed her digging. Fifteen minutes later his Lordship was at
her side. "There's one more plant left," remarked Mrs. Mackintosh, cleaning her
trowel and addressing herself to the task. "And are you going to say Yes when
you have finished?" "Yes," said the lady, "I am, but it's mostly on account of
Jonah." The Bishop ruthlessly set his foot on the tender shoot which intervened
between him and happiness, crushing it to the earth. Some time later Mrs.
Mackintosh remarked:

"The cathedral clock is striking twelve, and you're due in the study." "You
mean, my dear, that _we_ are due," replied his Lordship. *       *       *
*       *

On their arrival in the Bishop's sanctum, they found the full force of the
company assembled to receive them. Miss Matilda looked on this gathering with
suspicion. "I do not see," she said, "the need of so many witnesses to what must
prove, I fear, a humiliating confession." "I've come," returned Mrs. Mackintosh,
"to lend moral support to--" She glanced at the Bishop, changed her mind, and
supplemented--"Miss Arminster." "Shall I speak?" asked Miss Matilda, ignoring
her remark. "I will speak," said his Lordship. "It is my house, and my place to
do so." His sister sat down hurriedly. "I've sent for you, my dear," he
continued, turning to Violet, "because certain charges have been made against
you by Mr. Marchmont and--others, and, as my son informs me that you contemplate
marrying Mr. Spotts, and asking me to perform the ceremony, I feel it is my
duty--"

"She's already--" broke in his sister. "I am speaking, Matilda," he said
quietly, and she collapsed. "You mustn't think," he went on, "that my asking you
to explain your position implies any belief on my part in the charges made
against you. I've only requested this interview because I thought you'd like an
opportunity to disprove idle gossip." "It's very kind of you," she replied, "and
I shall avail myself of it gladly." "Quite so. Now my sister tells me that she's
seen, in a neighbouring church, the record of your marriage to Mr. Spotts. Is
this so?" "Certainly," said Violet. "I married him there in 1895." Miss Matilda
sniffed viciously. "Mr. Marchmont," continued the Bishop, "in whose statements,
I need hardly say, I place no reliance, informed my sister that you had been
married with unusual frequency; and my son tells me, also, that you've admitted
to him a--er--a considerable number of--er--matrimonial alliances. Would you--er
--er--consider it an intrusion on my part if I asked how many times you have
been married?" "I've had the marriage service performed over me," she replied,
"thirty-seven times in four years." Miss Matilda threw up her hands in an access
of horror. "But your husbands--" stammered his Lordship. "I never had but one
husband," she said. "And here he stands." And she took Spotts's hand in hers.
"Bless my soul!" exclaimed the Bishop. "You surely haven't married him thirty-
seven times?" "Yes, that is exactly the case," she returned. "But I don't
understand." "The explanation is very simple," she replied. "My husband and I
are both actors. He plays the part of the hero, and I the part of the heroine.
In the fifth act, after many struggles and disappointments, we're at last
united. To have the marriage ceremony actually performed on the stage, or the
next day at church, has always proved a great attraction to our audiences. At
first I objected. But I've been informed by a competent authority in my own
country that there's no canonical rule against it, and in remarrying my husband
I merely renew my vows to him, and I've never once gone through the ceremony
lightly or thoughtlessly. I do not defend the practice, or expect you to approve
of it, and, now that you know the truth, I shouldn't think of asking you to
marry us again; but I don't consider that I've done anything of which I need be
ashamed." "Dear me!" said the Bishop. "In my ecclesiastical position I can
hardly approve of the course you've taken; but as a man--well, it's a great
relief to me." "I consider it a sacrilege," exclaimed Miss Matilda, "and, as I
remarked to Cecil this morning, that young person leaves the palace to-day, or I
do!" "You'll naturally act as seems to you best," said her brother. "But I beg
you to remember that I'm master of this house, and that this lady is my guest."
"And who, pray, will keep your house for you when I'm gone?" she snapped. "I'm
sure that Mrs. Spotts will attend to it for me until Mrs. Mackintosh and I are
married." "Till you're married!" his sister repeated after him, too astounded to
grasp fully the meaning of his words. "It is an event which I hope will occur
shortly," her brother replied. "That's enough!" she retorted. "I leave Blanford
this afternoon!" "I trust you'll not go in anger, Matilda," he said. "I'm sure a
change will do you good. Miss Arminster--I mean Mrs. Spotts--suggests a course
of mud-baths; and if you'll permit me to assume the expense--"

"Josephus!" she returned shortly, "do not add insult to injury." And she swept
from the room. "I, too," said Professor Tybalt Smith, who had hitherto remained
silent--"I, too, must be permitted to excuse myself. It may be that I can
comfort that injured lady in her exile." And he followed her out. "Oh, I'm
delighted!" cried Violet, seizing Mrs. Mackintosh's hand. "And I, too," said
Cecil. "Thank you," replied his stepmother-to-be. "That pleases me more than
anything else. I hope you'll really make Blanford your home." "I shall indeed,"
he returned, "since no one will have me as a husband." "You've the great success
of your book to comfort you," suggested Violet. "What more can you ask?" "Well,
as it seems a day of explanations," he said, "I should really like to know why
you're called 'the Leopard'?" "It's a very trifling secret after all," she
replied, laughing. "But to have let you know it would have given away our little
plot. Now it doesn't matter. Tell him, Alvy." "It's merely this," said her
husband gaily: "that, as much as she may marry, HIS LORDSHIP'S LEOPARD CAN NEVER
CHANGE HER SPOT(T)S."

THE END. GODFREY'S THE HARP OF LIFE 12mo. $1.50. A very human account of certain
events in the life of the first violin of the Pinecliff (England) orchestra.
_Boston Transcript_: "She has literary skill, grace, delicacy.... Here and there
are bits of description sketched in with as much      sympathy as
truthfulness.... Her artistic sense is very keen. She      doesn't introduce a
description like this for the mere sake of      describing: something, but for
the purpose of contrast with a mood      or situation, and she never spoils a
perspective. Although she is      writing a musical novel, she never
rhapsodizes.... The      characterization is effective throughout.... This
masterly tale      cannot want for readers, it seems to us." _Public Opinion_:
"Miss Godfrey writes understandingly of music      and the musical temperament."
_Outlook_: "There are several characters of interest, and the      somewhat
unusual situations in which they are placed are handled      in a clever and
novel manner." _N. Y. Herald_: "She draws human nature, delights in the
opposition of character, and has, in fact, written a first-rate      modern
novel." _Buffalo Commercial Advertiser_: "A thoroughly good, strong, pure
story." GODFREY'S POOR HUMAN NATURE

A musical novel. _2d Impression_, 12mo. $1.50. The story of some Wagnerian
singers at the Court Opera of Blankenstadt. It has been said that this name
thinly veils Dresden, and that the book gives an intimate picture of musical
life at the Saxon capital. _Bookman_: "It is curiously convincing. The
characters, too are      peculiarly real.... Each and every one stands out with
vivid      distinction, and is not soon to be forgotten.... The portrayal of
local life, particularly that appertaining to operatic circles, is      full of
freshness and interest.... It is well written, it is nobly      felt, it is
altogether an admirable work." _New York Tribune_: "One of the cleverest musical
novels we know,      and it is particularly creditable in that it holds nothing
of the      hysterical gush with which the feminine writer usually fills
fiction of this kind.... The study of the group of singers at the      Royal
Opera in a minor German city is astonishingly well done, and      so is the
portrait of the great tenor's peasant wife ... so      unmistakably true that
she must have been drawn from life ... an      uncommonly attractive and
interesting novel." _Boston Transcript_: "We have nothing but praise to say of
this      fine, strong tale, and can recommend it heartily and without
qualification." _Literary World_: "There is a distinctly original touch in this
story.... Full of interest." _21st Impression of a Remarkable Romance._

THE GADFLY. By E. L. VOYNICH. 12mo, cloth. $1.25. _New York Tribune_: "It is
nothing more or less than one of the most powerful novels of the decade.... He
shows us the veritable conspirator of history, who plotted like a human being:
and not like an operatic bandit.... It is a thrilling book and absolutely
sober.... 'The Gadfly' is an original and impressive being; ... a story to
remember." _New York Times_: "Paradox worked up with intense dramatic effect is
the salient feature of 'The Gadfly'; ... shows a wonderfully strong hand, and
descriptive powers which are rare; ... a very remarkable romance." _The Dial_:
"One of the most interesting phases of the history of Nineteenth Century Europe.
The story of the Italian revolutionary movement; ... is full of such incidents
as the novelist most desires; ... this novel is one of the strongest of the
year, vivid in conception, and dramatic in execution, filled with intense human
feeling, and worked up to a tremendously impressive climax." _The Critic_: "An
historical novel permeated with a deep religious interest in which from first to
last the story is dominant and absorbing.... 'The Gadfly' is a figure to live in
the imagination." _The New York Herald_: "An exceptionally clever story,
eminently fresh and original. The author has a capital story to tell, and he
tells it consummately well.... The beaten track has not allured him, and the
characters to whom he introduces us are not such as we meet in every-day novels.
This is the crowning merit of this book." _The Chap Book_: "Gives the reading
public an opportunity to welcome a new and intense writer; ... a profound
psychological study; ... a powerful climax. Yet, however much the imagination be
used, the author will be found to rise beyond it; the scene at High Mass on the
feast of Corpus Christi being one of the most powerful in English fiction." _The
Independent_: "We have read this peculiar romance with breathless interest; ...
a romance of revolutionary experiences in Italy; lifelike, stirring,
picturesque, a story of passion, sacrifice, and tragic energy." _The Literary
World_: "A powerful and picturesque story--a canvas glowing with color and life
--the few striking characters stand out in firm, resolute outlines. We heartily
commend 'The Gadfly.'" _The Buffalo Commercial_: "In every way sharp, thrilling,
entertaining." _The Chicago Post_: "A powerful story, and, unlike others of its
kind, holds the reader's attention strictly to the end." _The Chicago Times-
Herald_: "'The Gadfly' is a tremendous story. It goes on like a whirlwind,
gathering force as it rushes." BARROW'S THE FORTUNE OF WAR A novel of the last
year of the American Revolution. 12mo. $1.25. The scene is laid mainly in New
York City during the British      occupation, partly on one of the prison ships,
and partly in the      patriot camp at Morristown. The life in the headquarters
of the      two armies is cleverly contrasted. The story has a strong "love
interest." _N. Y. Times Saturday Review_: "The story is a good one, the
historical data accurate, and the ways and manners of the period      are
cleverly presented." _The Outlook_: "Miss Elizabeth Barrow has done her work,
not only      well, but delightfully well." _Chicago Times-Herald_: "Another
tale of the time of Washington,      but one that is more deserving both of
popular and critical      appreciation than some of the much-vaunted financial
successes." _Springfield Republican_: "It gives a good picture of New York
City as it was in the eighteenth century.... The story is      agreeable
reading." _Hartford Courant_: "She has done good work in her romance; ... it
is told in a very attractive way.... The book is decidedly one      that will
entertain." GODFREY'S THE HARP OF LIFE

Uniform with the author's "Poor Human Nature." 12mo. $1.50. An intensely human
story of an episode in the life of the first      violin of an orchestra, at an
English watering-place. Miss Godfrey      has again been uncommonly happy in
creating a "musical      atmosphere." LUCAS'S THE OPEN ROAD

A little book for wayfarers, bicycle-wise and otherwise. Compiled      by E. V.
LUCAS, editor of "A Book of Verses for Children." With      illustrated cover-
linings. Green and gold flexible covers. 12mo. $1.50. Some 125 poems of out-door
life and 25 prose passages,      representing over 60 authors, including
Fitzgerald, Shelley,      Shakespeare, Kenneth Grahame, Stevenson, Whitman,
Bliss Carman,      Browning, William Watson, Alice Meynel, Keats, Wordsworth,
Matthew      Arnold, Tennyson, William Morris, Maurice Hewlett, Izaak Walton,
Wm. Barnes, Herrick, Gervase Markham, Dobson, Lamb, Milton,      Whittier, etc.
"_Better than the 'Prisoner of Zenda. '_"--CRITIC

10th Impression of the Sequel to

"The Prisoner of Zenda"

HOPE'S RUPERT OF HENTZAU

From the memoirs of Fritz von Tarlenheim. With eight full-page
illustrations by CHARLES DANA GIBSON, 12mo, $1.50. _A. Dithmar in New York
Times' Saturday Review_: "Delightfully      stirring and irresponsible, ... a
sequel ... for a wonder as      vigorous and powerful as its original.... It
seems to bring      romance to life again." _Life_: "A sequel to 'Zenda' which
does not let down one bit the      high standard of chivalrous love which was
the charm of that      romance.... Mr. Hope's heroes are never dull.... These
'Zenda'      stories have added a distinctly modern value to what men and women
mean by the 'sense of honor.'... The closing chapters are simply      written,
elevated in sentiment, and an ideal solution of the fate      of _Flavia_ and
_Rudolf_." _Geo. W. Smalloy in New York Herald_: "A story which lays a spell
upon you. The animation is unceasing, and so, therefore, is the
interest.... Mr. Hope has not lost his old deftness in      dialogue.... The
scene between the two men [Sapt and James] after      the murder ... is a
masterpiece." _New York Tribune_: "Everything moves swiftly and naturally to the
climax, upon which, we may add, Mr. Hope has wreaked himself with      a tact
that is perhaps the best thing in the book.... It is      absorbing, and
especially is it an excellent sequel, which is more      than can be said of
most books of its kind." _Springfield Republican_: "It is a question whether it
does not      rival 'The Prisoner of Zenda' itself in excellence.... It strikes
a stronger and deeper note." _Brooklyn Eagle_: "Has the ring of genuine humanity
and true      romance." _Chicago Tribune_: "Considered as a sequel, the book is
surprisingly good. It retains the spirit of 'Zenda,' is fertile in
invention, swift in movement, and is of a thrilling and absorbing      nature."
6th Impression of the New Edition of

HOPE'S PRISONER OF ZENDA

With five full-page illustrations by CHARLES DANA GIBSON, and a      view and
plan of the castle by HOWARD INCE. 12mo, $1.50. OTHER BOOKS BY ANTHONY HOPE

With frontispieces by RACKHAM, RUSSELL, and WECHSLER. 18mo, 75      cents each.
INDISCRETION OF THE DUCHESS, _12th Impression_. THE DOLLY DIALOGUES, _10th
Impression_. A CHANGE OF AIR, _9th Impression_. A MAN OF MARK, _9th Impression_.
SPORT ROYAL, ETC., _4th Impression_. "Tense with sustained power." --_New York
Commercial Advertiser_. FOLLY CORNER

BY MRS. HENRY DUDENEY

12mo. $1.25. A novel of love against reason in conflict with love conformable to
reason, worked out with all the power of the author's former novel, "The
Maternity of Harriot Wicken," but much more inviting in subject, characters, and
treatment. A distinct advance on that able work and full of promise for the
future of this rising author. Scene, Sussex to-day. _N. Y. Commercial
Advertiser_: "It shows the same deep insight into the complications of the human
soul [as did the author's earlier novel].... This story from the opening page is
tense with sustained power and is surely destined to be one of the most
important contributions to this season's fiction." _N. Y. Mail and Express_:
"These pictures have the true color, alive with the activity of nature or
soothing in its quietude. They form a distinct feature of the book, beautify its
pages and make them notable.... It has the elements in it of a wider popularity
[than that of the author's earlier novel], which it deserves in every sense."
_Buffalo Commercial_: "We find just the same originality in plot, skill in
character depiction, and the effective presentation of events [which
characterized 'The Maternity of Harriot Wicken'].... In the story we see so
artistic a description of the play of character, the various phases of human
goodness and badness are so well drawn out, that the book deserves high
praise.... The description of the life of Folly Corner, and the men and women
seen there, is not surpassed by any work of any contemporary novelist. The book
is a notable one every way." _The Academy, London_: "Really interesting; ... the
writing is generally vigorous and even brilliant. The comedy is first rate....
It is in fact a successful novel." "One of the most captivating works of fiction
that it has been our good fortune to read."--_Dial_. GOD'S PRISONER

By JOHN OXENHAM. 12mo, $1.25. A story of adventure in England and the Southern
Seas. _Dial_: "A series of the most romantic and startling experiences. The
author's invention is unflaggingly brilliant, and his narrative manner both
direct and forcible.... The reader bent upon excitement alone, and the reader
who delights in the better qualities of romance--in literary form and
psychological portrayal--will alike find their account in a book which we
counsel them not to miss." _Book Buyer_: "It is not likely that any story
bristles more with ingenious surprises.... If the reader should leave off in the
middle, there is no doubt that he would be sorely perplexed; but it is safe to
say that he will never have the fortitude to leave off in the middle." _New York
Commercial Advertiser_: "A very intense sort of book.... Many thrilling scenes
and strong delineations of emotion." _New York Times_: "A romance of adventure
carried out to its ultimate degree." _New York Tribune_: "By a daring abuse of
coincidence the climax is made positively amazing.... The tale of his wanderings
is well invented and diverting.... 'God's Prisoner' is unnatural in its tone,
but it is not dull." _New York Herald_: "Very entertaining reading." _Literary
World_: "So much of the interest depends on the surprises in the plot, that we
will not even give an outline of the story, but only say that it holds several
absorbing situations." _Public Opinion_: "A good story.... The mystery and agony
preceding the discovery is drawn in just the right shades. There was danger of
overdoing it, but the author was not to be entrapped.... There are surprises to
the end." _Chicago Times-Herald_: "There is such power of analysis, of
description, and of imagination, that one feels sure that he has to deal here
with the ebullition of an uncommon mind." _Saturday Review_ (London): "He tells
his tale in so brisk and plausible a fashion that belief comes easily."
_Graphic_ (London): "Has stronger motive for a novel of romantic and sensational
adventure than is at all usual, and to the very great advantage of an otherwise
exciting and well-constructed story." HENRY HOLT & CO. 29 West 23rd Street New
York