CHAPTER

I. FORMING THE NIGHT CLUB      II. THE COMING OF SALLIE     III. THE PRIME
MINISTER DECIDES TO ADVERTISE      IV. THE BOY       V. THE BARABBAS CLUB
VI. I FAIL THE NIGHT CLUB     VII. A SURPRISE BEHIND THE VEIL    VIII. THE
MAKING OF A MAN OF GENIUS      IX. MRS. BILTOX-JONES’S EXPERIMENT       X. THE
NIGHT CLUB VISITS BINDLE      XI. THE GENERAL BECOMES A MEMBER     XII. THE
MATER    XIII. THE ROMANCE OF A HORSEWHIPPING     XIV. GINGER VISITS THE NIGHT
CLUB      XV. A DRAMATIC ENGAGEMENT     XVI. THE MOGGRIDGES’ ZEPPELIN NIGHT
XVII. SALLIE AT THE WHEEL

*THE NIGHT CLUB*

*CHAPTER I*

*FORMING THE NIGHT CLUB*

The idea originated with Bindle, who is never so happy as when listening to or
telling a story. Sooner or later he will so guide conversation as to challenge
from someone a reminiscence, or failing that, he will himself assume the burden
of responsibility, and tell of how he engineered one of his "little jokes," as
he calls them. "I likes to ’ear ’im tellin’ the tale," Bindle remarked one
evening, as we sat in Dick Little’s flat. Dick had just finished an extravagant
and highly-coloured account of an Oxford "rag." "Fancy young gentlemen be’avin’
like that," Bindle continued, "instead o’ learnin’ to be parsons. P’raps that’s
why they looks such gentle Jims when they gets into a stiff collar," and Bindle
buried a wink in his tankard. A number of us had formed the habit of drifting
into Dick Little’s flat in Chelsea on Sunday evenings for a smoke, a drink and a
yarn. That was in Dick’s bachelor days and when he was working night and day at
"Tims" (St. Timothy’s Hospital). There would be Jocelyn Dare, the writer and
inveterate hater of publishers, Jack Carruthers, who tolerated everybody except
Mr. Lloyd George, sometimes Tom Little, Dick’s brother, and about a dozen
others, including a lot of men from "Tims." One Sunday evening in May, when the
air was heavily-scented with blackthorn and laburnum, Bindle and I arrived on
Dick Little’s doorstep within two seconds of each other. "Hullo, J.B.," I hailed
as he was closing the outer door of the mansions. We always call him "J.B.,"
following Dick Little’s lead. "Cheerio, sir," he responded, holding the door
open for me to pass and, giving vent to an elaborate sigh of relief, added: "I’m
glad to get in, that I am. I never feels safe till I gets ’ere. Lord! ’ow them
young women do make eyes at me. I s’pose it’s the Spring. It ain’t safe for me
to be out, it ain’t really, sir." We were the first arrivals, and it was during
the next ten minutes that Bindle made his proposal. "Why shouldn’t we ’ave a
little club, sir, wot does nothink but tell the tale?" he asked. That was the
inception of the whole idea. Dick grasped hold of it eagerly. He is a doctor and
doing his best to kill himself with hospital work, and I think he saw in
Bindle’s suggestion a welcome change after a strenuous week’s work. We discussed
the matter during the next ten minutes, and, when the other fellows arrived,
they were told of the new order of things and, with one voice, acclaimed Bindle
a genius. It must be confessed that the men from "Tims" are unrivalled in their
capacity for acclamation—they revel in the robustious. It frequently involves
Dick Little in difficulties with his neighbours, especially with a choleric old
general who lives in the flat beneath. "I always wanted a night club," explained
Bindle when he had disentangled his limbs from the eager hands that had hoisted
him shoulder-high. "It ’ud sort o’ cheer Mrs. B. up to know that ’er ole man was
goin’ to ’ell quicker than wot she thought." After that it was always "The Night
Club." We seemed to adopt the name as a matter of course. We arranged to meet on
Sunday evenings at nine o’clock. Each member of the Club was liable to be called
upon to tell a story, after being given a reasonable notice. "Didn’t we ought to
’ave rules, sir," enquired Bindle of Dick Little. "Once you start making rules
you are undone," broke in Tom Little, "for you have to frame other rules to
modify those already made. At Oxford——"

"Is it to be a cock and hen club?" interrupted Carruthers. "A cock an’ wot club,
sir?" enquired Bindle, pausing in the act of lighting his pipe. "A cock an’ wot
club?" "Are ladies to be——"  Carruthers got no further. Bindle deliberately
replaced the match in the box, which with his pipe he returned to his jacket
pocket. Then with great solemnity and deliberation he rose and walked towards
the door. "Hullo! J.B.," cried Dick Little. "What’s up?" "If you’re goin’ to
’ave ’ens, sir, this ’ere cock’s off, see?" "Come back, you silly ass," laughed
Tom Little. Bindle paused irresolutely and looked from face to face. "Is it ’ens
or no ’ens, sir?" he enquired of Dick Little. "Why, no hens, of course," shouted
Jim Colman, one of Tim’s men, giving Bindle a thump between the shoulders that
would have made most men wince. "Right-o, gentlemen; then this ’ere cock
withdraws ’is resignation, an’ all’s serene again," and Bindle returned to his
seat and the occupation of kindling his pipe. Thus it was that women were barred
from the Night Club. The first meeting, however, ended in a fiasco. A fellow
named Roger Blint had been called upon to tell a yarn, which proved him to be
utterly devoid of narrative skill. It was something about a man who was jilted
by a girl and, in consequence, went to the war, returning a few months later
with his breast a rainbow of ribbons and his pockets jingling with medals,
crosses and stars. We were all much depressed. After the others had gone Bindle,
Dick Little and I conferred together, and it was decided by a majority of two to
one that I was first to hear the stories, write them out and read them to the
club. I protested that I was too busy; but Bindle had finally over-ruled my
expostulations. "No, one ain’t never too busy to do a little bit more," he said.
"I once ’ad a special kind o’ performin’ fleas, wot was the busiest things I
ever seen; yet they wasn’t too busy to give me a nip or two now and then. You
got to do it, sir," and I felt I had. We developed into a curiously motley
crowd. One night Bindle brought Ginger along, and Ginger had remarked "I don’t
’old wiv them sort o’ clubs." He refused all other invitations. We had among us
a retired policeman, a man who kept a coffee-stall, Angell Herald, the famous
publicity agent, the Honourable Anthony Charles Windover (now Lord Windover),
and many others. Had we accepted all the nominations, we should have been an
uncomfortably mixed crowd. Dick Little was particularly anxious to introduce a
"Polish" barber whose name was Schmidt, on the strength of his having exhibited
in his shop-window the following notice:—

"I am an alleged Russian subject,"

but we had blackballed the worthy Schmidt. "Because a cove says a funny thing,"
remarked Bindle, "doesn’t always mean ’e’s funny. Sometimes ’e can’t ’elp it,
poor chap." As a result of the story about Sallie, Jack Carruthers’ sister, she
became the only woman ever admitted to the Night Club. There was not a man in
the assembly but was desperately in love with her from the moment he heard the
tale. Never was a queen more deferred to and fussed over than Sallie. To Bindle
she was "the sport of sports." "She ain’t always flapping ’er petticoats," he
said admiringly. "Yer wouldn’t know you ’ad a bit o’ skirt ’ere except when yer
looks at ’er face." Bindle was Sallie’s cavalier. If the atmosphere seemed to
get too thick with smoke, it was he who threw up the window, or propped open the
door until it cleared. When Jack Carruthers was not present, it was always
Bindle who put Sallie into her taxi; it was an understood thing. One night the
Boy, quite unthinkingly, endeavoured to usurp Bindle’s prerogative. Bindle had
looked him up and down for a moment and remarked cheerily: "All right, ’Mr.
’Indenburg,’ you jest wait till I’ve finished, then I’ll come and take you
’ome." Bindle is a journeyman pantechnicon-man, with an unquenchable thirst for
fun. He is small, bald-headed, red-nosed, cheery. To him life is one long-drawn-
out joke. He is blessed with a wife and brother-in-law (Alfred Hearty, the
Fulham greengrocer), whose godliness is overpowering. Bindle is a cockney by
birth and in feeling. He loves mischief for its own sake; but underneath there
is always gentleness and consideration for the unfortunate, and a kindly
philosophy without which laughter is an insult to life. Of the other members of
The Night Club little need be said. Most of them are doing war-work in some
shape or form. Windover is a captain on the Staff, Carruthers is in the R.N.R.,
Dare is in munitions, his heart "plucked" him for the army, and the rest are
doing their bit to the best of their ability. To one and all Sunday is a
relaxation from a strenuous week of work, and the presiding spirit of our
assemblies is our unanimously-elected chairman, Joseph Bindle. Although Bindle
is a laughing philosopher, he has several streaks of granite in his composition:
among them independence. One of the first questions raised was that of drinks.
Dick Little, whose generosity is embarrassing, had said that was his affair.
"Very well, sir," was Bindle’s comment; "then you breaks up the Night Club."
Enquiry elicited from Bindle the announcement that unless we all paid our share,
he "wasn’t taking anythink." From that time it became an understood thing that
each member became responsible for one evening’s refreshments. We had fought
Bindle as long as possible, but he was adamant. It was quite by chance we
discovered later that when his turn came to pay, he had worked overtime for a
whole week so that Mrs. Bindle should not go short on account of his pleasures.
Bindle had suggested that when the time came a selection of the stories might be
printed. It was explained to him that short stories do not sell; the British
public does not like, and will not read, them. Bindle had pondered over this for
a while and, finally, had said with decision: "Then we’ll make ’em read ours. Me
an’ Mrs. B. don’t neither of us seem to fancy cold mutton, an’ when there’s a
bit over you should jest see wot she can do with it. She can turn it into
anythink from stewed rabbit to mince pies." Then turning to me he continued:
"You done me proud in that other little ’ymn book o’ yours, sir, although ’Earty
and Mrs. B. don’t seem quite to ’ave recovered from the shock o’ bein’ famous,
and now you can tell all about our Night Club. "You jest tell about Miss Sallie,
sir, ah’ Young ’Indenburg, the Cherub (Bindle’s name for Angell Herald), an’ Mr.
Gawd Blast (Jocelyn Dare); why them alone ’ud make any book famous. Then you
might add jest a sort of ’int, yer know, sir, that I’d be in it an’ then,
wot-o!" Bindle did a few fancy steps towards his tankard and took a good pull.
"With Miss Sallie, Young ’Indenburg, an’ me, sir, you got the real thing." That
settled the matter, and here is the book, short stories disguised as a book of
consecutive interest, just as Mrs. Bindle’s cold mutton masquerades as "stewed
rabbit" or "mince pies." It’s a fraud, a palpable fraud, but as Bindle says, we
all keep "a-poppin’ up like U-boats, that people’ll sort o’ get fond of us."
Many will say I should have been firmer; but the man who can withstand Bindle
when he is set upon having his own way is a being of finer moral fibre than I.
The hour, when it came, for deciding which stories should be included and which
omitted, would, I thought, be the last of the Night Club. Nobody agreed upon
anything. Sallie refused to allow the story to be told of how she did what the
whole power of Germany has failed to do—tricked the British Navy. At the mere
suggestion of printing even a covert reference to himself, the Boy became almost
hysterical. Angell Herald, on the other hand, felt that all his yarns should go
in, and said so, intimating also that he had several others. Furthermore he
hinted that he might get us some advertisements to go at the end of the volume,
_provided_ it satisfied him! Finally it was agreed that Dare and I should decide
what stories were to be included, and from our verdict there was to be no
appeal. Bindle’s last words on the subject were—

"You jest put me an’ Miss Sallie on the cover an’ you’ll see." *CHAPTER II*

*THE COMING OF SALLIE*

When the Night Club was formed it was definitely agreed that it should be for
men only, like the best stories and the most delightful women; yet at the third
sitting Sallie Carruthers became the one and only woman member. The circumstance
was so unexpected that it can be understood only as a result of a thorough
description of Sallie, and the difficulty is to know where to begin—the end is
always the same, a precipitate falling-in-love with her. It is all very tedious
for Sallie, who does not seem to like being fallen-in-love-with. To use her own
expression, "It spoils it." What it is that it spoils she does not seem able to
explain, and if pressed she replies despairingly, "Oh! everything." To a man
Sallie is an enigma. She seems desirous of rebuking Nature. She claims from a
man comradeship and equality, and he who is not prepared to concede this had
better keep out of her way. If some poor wretch, not knowing Sallie’s views,
happen to be with her in the country and pause to help her over a stile, he
never does so more than once. Sallie’s eyes will smile her thanks and convey a
reproach at the same time. On the other hand, in a drawing-room or at a theatre,
Sallie would not be likely to overlook the slightest omission. There is about
her a quality that is as personal as it is irresistible. I have never known her
fail to get what she wanted, just as I have never known her to appear to want
what she gets. If Sallie asks me to take her up the river on the Sunday I have
invited Aunt Jane to lunch, I explain things to Sallie, and there the matter
appears to end; yet on that self-same Sunday Sallie and I go up the river, and
on the Monday I have a letter from Aunt Jane saying that I am quite right to
take every care of an internal chill! To describe Sallie is impossible. She has
very large, expressive, grey eyes, exceedingly long lashes, carmine lips,
nondescriptive features, masses of dark brown hair that grows low down upon her
forehead, and the quality of attracting the attention of everybody in her
vicinity. She dresses well, is the victim of moods, seems to eat nothing, and is
as straight as the Boat Race. With a word or a glance she can annihilate or
intoxicate. I call to mind one occasion, when what might have been a delightful
dinner was being ruined by a bounder, who monopolised the conversation with
pointless stories. Sallie waited her chance. "I have a grandfather," began the
bounder. "Have you?" enquired Sallie in a tone full of sweetness and meaning.
The man subsided. One day Sallie rang me up, and by the impatient "There?
There?? There??? Oh, bother!" I knew that something important was in the air. "I
am," I replied. "What?" "Here, of course," I replied. "I’ve got it," said
Sallie; "I’ve got it." "Heavens!" I responded. "How did you catch it? Hadn’t you
better go to bed?" "You’re not a bit funny. Aren’t you glad I’ve got it?" she
queried. "Certainly, very glad if you are." "Jack gave it to me." "Really? Has
he got it too? What is it?" "A car, of course!" Now this was characteristic of
Sallie. I did not even know that she desired a car; probably her brother Jack,
who gives her everything but the good advice she so sadly needs, was as ignorant
as I. Most likely he had planned the whole thing as a surprise, just as I once
gave Sallie a punt as a "surprise," and learned later that for a month
previously she had been taking lessons in punting. But that’s just Sallie. "It’s
so wonderful," Sallie went on to explain. "It does such funny things. Sometimes
it barks like a dog—(I shivered, I knew what that meant for the car)—and
sometimes it purrs just like Wivvles." Wivvles is a Persian kitten of no manners
and less——but Wivvles can wait. At times Sallie is very trying, although
unconsciously. She has a habit of taking the first syllable of her friends’
surnames and adding a "y." Windover, for instance, becomes "Winny." Poor Graves,
who is very fat and moist, she calls "Gravy," and it hurts him just as it hurts
dear old Skillington, who is long and learned, to hear himself referred to as
"Skilly." It would, however, hurt them both far more if Sallie were allowed to
guess their real feelings. Having to some extent explained Sallie, I must
proceed to tell the story that resulted in her becoming a member of the Night
Club. Bindle had arranged that I should tell the first story, and in honour of
Jack Carruthers, who is Dick Little’s particular pal, and a foundation member of
the Club, I decided to tell how Sallie had once personated an admiral’s daughter
and what came of it. *I*

On coming down to breakfast one June morning I found awaiting me a telegram. It
was from Jack Carruthers at Sheerness, and read:—

"got hilda here bring malcolm sallie dora for week end cruise meet you sheerness
pier four oclock friday jack"

"I’ll be damned if I do," I cried aloud. "I b-b-beg your p-p-pardon, sir?" said
Peake, who entered at that moment bearing before him the eternal eggs, bacon and
kidneys. Peake is entirely devoid of culinary imagination. "I remarked, Peake,"
I replied with great distinctness, "that I’ll be damned if I do." "Yes, sir," he
responded, as he placed the dish of reiterations on the table before me; "b-b-b-
but you said ’addock on W-w-Wednesdays and F-f-fridays, sir: this is only T-t-
tuesday." "I wasn’t referring to fish, Peake," I said severely, "but to Mr.
Carruthers and the _Hilda_. He has invited me to take another cruise with him."
A look of fear came into Peake’s eyes. I had recently threatened to take him
with me on the next occasion that I sailed with Carruthers. Peake is an
excellent servant; but he has three great shortcomings: he has no imagination,
stutters like a machine-gun, and is a wretched sailor. For stuttering he has
tried every known cure from the Demosthenian pebble to patent medicines, and for
sea-sickness he has swallowed the contents of innumerable boxes and bottles. The
result is that he stutters as much as ever, and during a Channel crossing is
about as useful as a fishing-rod. It has never come to my knowledge that he has
sought a cure for his lack of imagination. "I b-b-beg pardon, sir. I thought you
m-m-meant the breakfast. S-s-shall I pack your things, sir?" he questioned, as
he stood regarding me wistfully, his hand on the handle of the door. "What I
said, Peake, was that I’ll be damned if I do, which does not involve packing.
You will not pack my things, and please don’t again suggest doing so; it annoys
me intensely. That is all." Peake withdrew with the air of a man who has heard,
but does not believe. I was convinced that he was already planning how he should
spend his time during my absence. I ate my breakfast in silence, read the
shipping casualties to steady my determination to decline Carruthers’
invitation, and smoked four cigarettes. Being unable to get my mind away from
the _Hilda_ and her skipper, I determined, therefore, to go out at once and send
him a telegram of curt refusal. With my fifth cigarette between my lips I set
forth. The reason for my determination was Dora coupled with Malcolm. Dora bores
me, and when Malcolm tries to flirt with her, which he does in a manner that
reminds me of a cod making love to a trout, I become demoralised. Dora is
Sallie’s pal and the wife of some man or other whom I have met and forgotten: no
one would think of burdening his mind with anything belonging to Dora that she
is not actually wearing at the moment. Dora is extremely modish and regards a
husband as she would a last year’s frock. In the Earl’s Court Road I encountered
Sallie. She was engaged in meditatively prodding with the forefinger of her
right hand the lifeless carcass of a chicken. I approached unseen. "We should
reverence the dead, my friend," I remarked gravely. She turned suddenly, with a
little cry of pleasure that digested the kidneys and dismissed Malcolm and the
_Hilda_ from my overburdened mind. "Oh, I _am_ glad to see you," she said,
"awfully glad. Can you remember whether a good chicken should be blue or yellow?
I know it’s _one_ of the primary colours, because that’s why I remember it?" And
she knit her brows as, with a puzzled expression of doubt, she regarded the row
of trussed birds upon the poulterer’s slab. "You are confusing the primary
colours with the primary pigments. They——"

"Please try and help me," she pleaded; "I’m so worried. The housekeeper has gone
to see a sick relative, and I have to forage for food. It’s awful. I hate
eating." Sallie looked so wretched, and her grey eyes so luminous and pathetic,
that I took the chickens in hand, purchased two saffron-coloured specimens at a
venture, and we proceeded to the fishmonger’s. Sallie’s shopping completed, I
told her of Jack’s wire and my determination. "Oh! but we _must_ go," she said
with conviction. "We can’t let him down." I explained that I could not get away.
"I wish I were a man," Sallie sighed mournfully, and gazed down at her very
dainty tailor-made skirt, a habit of hers when she wants to engage upon
something a woman should not do. Then turning half round and dancing before me
backwards, she burst out, "But I should so love it. Do take me,
_pleeeeeeeeease_." "Sallie," I said, "there’s an old lady opposite who is struck
speechless by your salvation tactics." "Oh! bother the old lady," she laughed.
"Now we’ll go and telegraph." When I left Sallie, I had telegraphed an
acceptance to Jack and wired to Malcolm. Sallie composed telegrams, which must
have caused them some surprise on account of their extreme cordiality. We then
parted, Sallie to call on Dora, I to telephone to Peake that he might after all
pack my bag, although there were three days in which to do it. As a matter of
fact I did not feel equal to that I-never-doubted-you’d-go-sir look in his eyes.
*II*

Victoria Station had been agreed upon as the rendezvous, and there we met.
Sallie looked demurely trim and appropriately dressed. Dora seemed to have got
confused between a yachting-trip and a garden-party, and had struck an unhappy
medium between the two. Dora has what is known to women as "a French figure";
but what to man remains a mystery; she also has fair hair and a something in the
eye that makes men look at her with interest and women with disapproval. Malcolm
is all legs and arms and sketch-book. He was quite appropriately dressed in a
Norfolk knickerbocker suit, with a straw hat and an umbrella—appropriately
dressed, that is, for anything but yachting. Malcolm is a marine-painter, and
what he does not know about the sea and boats need not concern either yachtsman
or artist. He is tall and thin, with the temper of an angel, the caution of a
good sailor and the courage of a lion. He waves his arms about like semaphores,
rates woman lower than a barge, and never fails to earn the respect of
sailormen. Malcolm is a man of strange capacities and curious limitations.
Anybody will do anything for him, porters carry his luggage with no thought of
tips, editors publish his drawings, whether they want to or no, people purchase
his pictures without in the least understanding them, and, finally, everybody
accepts him without comment, much as they do a Bank Holiday or an eclipse.
Sallie and Dora between them had only a small valise, whereas Malcolm carried a
sketch-book and an umbrella. He, as I, was depending upon Carruthers for all
save a tooth-brush. There was the inevitable delay on the line, and we were over
an hour late. Sallie was in a fever of excitement lest the _Hilda_ should sail
without us. Malcolm, with that supreme lack of tact so characteristic of him,
explained what a ticklish business it was getting out of Sheerness Harbour under
sail with the wind in its present quarter. He thought that in all probability
the auxiliary motor had broken down, and that the _Hilda_ would have to depend
upon canvas to get out, in which case she must have sailed half-an-hour before.
When we eventually drew into the station, out of the train, down the platform,
through the gates, into the street, sped Malcolm, and we, like "panting time
toiled after him in vain." He waved his umbrella to us to hurry, not knowing
that Dora has a deplorably short wind. On he tore, and finally disappeared
through the pier-gates without, as we afterwards found, paying his toll, a
privilege he had generously delegated to us. When we in turn passed through the
gates, it was to find Malcolm hysterically waving his umbrella, apparently at
the Medway guardship. Suddenly the truth dawned upon us, the _Hilda_ had sailed.
Probably Carruthers had not received the telegram. Arrived at the pierhead we
saw the _Hilda_ off the Isle of Grain, two miles distant, slowly slipping out of
the Medway against the tide with the aid of her auxiliary motor. The sight was
one of the most depressing that I have ever experienced. We looked at each other
blankly. "It’s the cup of Tantalus," I murmured, with classical resignation.
"It’s that damned auxiliary motor," muttered the practical Malcolm. "Commong
faire?" enquired Dora, who is inclined occasionally to lapse into French on the
strength of her figure. "Commong faire?" "Noo verrong," replied Malcolm in what
he conceives to be the Gallic tongue. I made no remark, but with Sallie stood
idly watching a steam-pinnace approaching the pier-head from the Medway
guardship that lay moored directly opposite. "I know!" Sallie suddenly said, and
I knew that she really did know. There are moments when I am at a loss to
understand why I do not run away with Sallie and marry her in spite of herself,
merely as a speculative investment. She is exquisitely ornamental, and her
utility equals her æsthetic qualities; more would be impossible. At Sallie’s
exclamation Dora and Malcolm drew towards us. "Tell me the name of an admiral,"
Sallie cried, her large, grey eyes diverted from epic contemplation of the
universe to a lyric mischievousness. "I want an admiral." "Try a lieutenant to
begin with," Malcolm suggested, and was withered. "An admiral," said Dora.
"Nelson; he was an admiral, wasn’t——?" "Van Tromp, Blake, Benbow, Villeneuve,
Collingwood, St. Vincent, Cochrane——" glibly responded Malcolm. As the responses
were uttered at the same time, Sallie probably heard little of what was said.
Suddenly becoming very calm, she addressed herself to Malcolm. "I want to know
the name of an English admiral of the present day. Are there any?" "Plenty,"
responded Malcolm. "Crosstrees (I dare not give the real name), First Sea Lord,
May, Meux, Jellicoe, Beresford, Scott, Beatty." "Is Admiral Crosstrees married?"
queried Sallie calmly. "Has he grown-up daughters? Is he old?" "Any First Sea
Lord who has not grown-up daughters has evaded his responsibilities as an
officer and a gentleman," I remarked. Suddenly Sallie took command. Motioning us
back, she went to the extreme end of the pier and looked down. A moment later,
the white top of a naval cap appeared above the edge, followed by a fair face
and five feet six of a sub-lieutenant. Sallie addressed herself to him, and,
taking advantage of his obvious confusion, said: "Will you please take us out to
that yacht," pointing to the _Hilda_. "She has gone without us, and——well, we
want to get on board." When the sub. had recovered from Sallie’s smile and her
carnation tint, he stammered his regret. "I’m most awfully sorry; but I’m here
to take liberty men aboard. I’m, I’m, afraid I can’t, otherwise I would with
er—er—er——"

"What are liberty men?" questioned Sallie, looking at him with grey-eyed
gravity. "Men who have been ashore on leave," was the response. "Can you signal
to that?" asked Sallie with guile, nodding at the guardship. "I beg pardon,"
replied the bewildered sub, fast breaking up beneath Sallie’s gaze. "Does the
captain know the First Sea Lord, Admiral Crosstrees?" "I—I don’t know," he
replied, "I——"

"I am Miss Crosstrees. Will you please tell me who you are. I should like to
know, because you are the first officer I have met who has been discourteous to
me. I will not trouble you further," and she moved away like an outraged Mrs.
Siddons. "I—I’m awfully sorry, Miss Crosstrees. I didn’t know——of course——if you
can get down. I will most certainly——"  He collapsed into confused silence. "You
will take us then?" Sallie questioned, approaching two steps nearer to him.
"Certainly: but er—er—can you—er?" Sallie looked down. A perpendicular iron
ladder led down to the pinnace some thirty feet below. It was not pleasant for a
woman. "Will you go down and—and——" faltered Sallie. He was a nice youth, who
understood and disappeared, I after him. Then came Sallie, easily and naturally
as if accustomed to such ladders all her life. Dora followed, almost hysterical
with fear, and finally came Malcolm, with his umbrella and the valise in one
hand and his sketch-book between his teeth. I could see the men were impressed
with his performance. I did not at all like the adventure. It might end very
unpleasantly for some of us, and the "some," I knew, would be Malcolm and me. I
was by no means reassured when I saw that the sub. was steering the pinnace
directly for the guardship. Did he suspect? I racked my brains to try and
recollect if the First Sea Lord were married, if he had a family, if——. It was
as if from far away that I heard the sub, hailing the guardship through a
megaphone. "Admiral Crosstrees’ daughter wishes to be put aboard that yacht,
sir. Am I——"

"Certainly," came the reply, as the officer of the watch came to the side and
saluted. Hands bobbed up from everywhere, and it seemed as if a dead ship had
suddenly been galvanised into life. Sallie’s bow and smile were much
appreciated, every man taking it unto himself. That is Sallie’s way. She can
slay a regiment or a ship’s company with a glance, whilst another woman is
exhausting herself in trying to enlist the interest of a stockbroker. Out we
rushed after the _Hilda_. Sallie, now that she had gained her point, became
absorbed in contemplating the Isle of Grain, and watching the white wake of the
pinnace. Occasionally a slight, half-sad, half-contemplative smile would flit
across her features. She had forgotten everything—yachts, pinnaces, subs, and
was just alone with the things that mattered, the sea, the sky, and the green
fields. Dora chatted with the sub., whose eyes repeatedly wandered to where
Sallie was standing quite oblivious to his presence. Malcolm was in deep
converse with one of the crew, whilst I watched the others, especially Sallie. I
find it difficult to keep my eyes off Sallie when she is within their range. She
is an interesting study for a man with the chilled physique of a St. Anthony;
for the rest of us she is a maddening problem. The _Hilda_ was labouring dully,
heavily through the broken water, whilst we raced, bobbed, jumped and tore after
her. Malcolm hailed her through the megaphone, and there came back in
Carruthers’ drawling voice:

"Awfully glad you’ve come!" The bowman brought the pinnace dexterously under the
_Hilda’s_ port quarter, and Sallie clutched at the yacht’s shrouds and sprang
aboard. The sub. watched her with frank admiration. Sallie does everything in
the open most thoroughly well. I have seen her fall flat on her face at the
winning-post in her determination not to be beaten by a longer-legged and
swifter opponent. How truly admirable she was, struck us all very vividly as we
strove to hoist, pull, and push Dora, aboard. In spite of its æsthetic glory,
Dora’s figure possesses very obvious limitations in the matter of surmounting
obstacles. Immediately she was on board, Sallie went up to Carruthers and
gravely shook hands (Sallie hates being kissed, I speak from careful
observation), and drew him aside. "Jack, until that steam launch is out of sight
I’m Miss Crosstrees, daughter of the First Sea Lord. Don’t let any of the crew
give me away." "Or the guardship will sink us," I added. Carruthers looked
puzzled, but with a cheery, "all right, Sallie, my bonnie," he went to the side
to thank the sub. Carruthers would cheerfully imperil his immortal soul for
Sallie. The sub. was brought aboard, and we all drank to the eyes that are
brightest, in 1900 Champagne, I have forgotten the brand. The sub. was very
obvious, and we all guessed the eyes he pledged—all save Sallie. As the sub.
stood at the side preparatory to descending into the pinnace, Sallie held out
her hand, which he took as if it had been some saintly relic. "I shall always
remember your kindness, Mr. ——" (I dare not give his name for fear of the
Admiralty censuring him). Then with an arch look added, "I shall tell my
father." And the pinnace that had brought a sub. went away with a potential Sea
Lord. When the pinnace was about a hundred yards off Dora waved her
handkerchief. "Why is it that Dora does these things?" I saw the mute question
in Sallie’s eyes. The men would have cheered had they dared. "Carruthers," I
remarked as the pinnace sped away from us, "will you put me ashore at once?"
"Why, old man?" he questioned blankly. "Your most excellent sister," I retorted,
"has been posing as the daughter of the First Sea Lord of the Admiralty, without
even knowing if he be married or no. I call it disgraceful, and it is likely to
produce a pained feeling in Whitehall when it becomes known. That sub. is bound
to write to the Admiralty and demand the command of a Super-Dreadnought for his
services. I demand to be put ashore at once." When Carruthers had heard the
story he laughed loud and long, and, putting his arm round Sallie, proclaimed
hers the best brain in the family. The log of the Medway guardship would persist
in obtruding itself upon my vision. There would be an entry relating to the
First Sea Lord’s daughter and the service rendered her. The wretched business
haunted me. I sought out "Who’s Who"; but that gave me no assistance. If the
First Sea Lord had a daughter, it might be all right; but if he had not?
However, there was nothing to be done but to try to enjoy the trip, and forget
the Admiralty. The _Hilda_ is a 200-ton barge-rigged, sailing yacht, possessed
of an auxiliary motor; a boon to the wind or tide-bound yachtsman. Some men
affect to despise the aid of a motor, but Carruthers argues that a mariner is
not less a mariner because he harnesses to his needs an explosive-engine and a
propeller. Once aboard the _Hilda_ I felt that our adventures were ended. It was
perfect weather for idling. The previous day’s rain had cleared the heavens of
all but a few filmy clouds. There was a good sailing breeze, and the _Hilda_
bent gravely over as she cut through the water on her way seawards. Malcolm was
for’ard, lying on his back looking aloft at the swelling canvas. There is no
sight so grand or pleasing to a yachtsman’s eye as that obtained from this
position, and Malcolm knows it. Carruthers was at the helm flirting outrageously
with Dora. Sallie was talking with old Jones, the bo’sun and mate, about his
latest grandson. The crew of the _Hilda_ are to a man devoted to Sallie. Tidings
that she is to be one of a cruising party means much and self-imposed extra
labour, both as regards the _Hilda_ herself and her crew. Everything and
everybody are smartened up, and Vincent, the cook, ages perceptibly under the
strain of thinking out a menu that shall tempt Sallie to eat. His brow never
clears until Sallie has paid him the customary visit of ceremony, which to him
is more in the nature of a religious rite. "Chef"; (she always called him
"chef") "it was delicious! Thank you very much indeed," Sallie would say with a
grave and gracious smile befitting so great an occasion, a happy, boyish look
would spread itself over Vincent’s sombre features, and the crew would know that
there was to be some dainty at their next meal; for Vincent, when happy, which
was extremely seldom, radiated good-will and distributed his largess with
unstinting hand. There is no ecstasy like that of idleness, and no idleness to
compare with that felt upon a yacht running before a breeze. Yesterday’s
troubles are wiped out, and to-morrow’s anxieties seem too far off for serious
consideration. I was standing musing upon the beauty of the day, watching the
_Hilda’s_ track which seemed to trail off into infinity, when I became conscious
that the little streak of grey smoke that I had been gazing at for some time
came from the funnels of a destroyer, which was evidently being pushed. She was
fetching us back to her at a rare pace, and was obviously heading our way. For
some minutes I continued idly to watch her. Suddenly the old misgiving assailed
me. Sallie’s deception had been discovered, and the irate captain of the
guardship had sent to demand an explanation. I strolled over to Carruthers and
told him my fears. He grinned with obvious enjoyment. Carruthers is
imperturbable. He looked over his shoulder at the destroyer. After a time he
called to Sallie, who was sitting amidships, musing. "They’re coming to fetch
you, Sallie," he said cheerfully, and then explained his fears. "Shall we fight
for you, my girl, or calmly give you up?" Sallie clapped her hands with glee. To
be chased by a warship was a novelty she enjoyed to its fullest extent. "Will
they fire, do you think?" she enquired of Malcolm, trembling with eagerness.
"They’ll probably megaphone us to come up into the wind," responded the
practical Malcolm. Sallie’s face fell. I really believe she half hoped that the
destroyer would endeavour to sink the _Hilda_. By this time everyone aboard had
become conscious that something unusual was happening. The crew stood grouped
amidships, talking in undertones and casting side-glances at our little party
standing round the wheel. It was now apparent to all that we were the
destroyer’s objective. On she came like a mad thing, her grey snout tearing at
the waters and throwing them over her humped-up shoulders. She looked like some
wicked gnome bent on the ruin of the inoffensive _Hilda_. Sallie’s eyes danced
with glee. She had never seen anything so magnificent as this sinister creature
that came bounding towards us. We all watched breathlessly. Presently a crisp,
metallic voice sounded through the megaphone:

"Yacht ahoy! we want to board you." A few sharp words from Carruthers and we
flew hither and thither, and soon the _Hilda_ with mains’l and tops’l brailed
came up into the wind. It was all quietly and prettily done, and our nimbleness
much impressed the destroyer’s crew, as we afterwards learned. The destroyer was
soon beside us. We expected another megaphone message; but no, they were
lowering a boat. Dora became anxious and asked, could we not hide Sallie?
Nothing short of extreme physical force could have hidden Sallie at that moment.
The destroyer’s boat was soon under our lee, and an officer with the stripes of
a lieutenant-commander sprang aboard and saluted Dora and Sallie. The _Hilda’s_
crew stood gazing at us in undisguised amazement. What was going to happen?
Sallie stepped forward. The officer looked round as if seeking someone. "Can I
speak to Miss Crosstrees?" he enquired, looking from one to the other. "I am
Miss Crosstrees," said Sallie stepping forward. A look of bewilderment spread
itself over the young man’s face. Then, as if with sudden inspiration, he
plunged his hand into his waistcoat pocket and withdrew a small gold pencil case
and held it out to Sallie. "I think you dropped this in the pinnace. The captain
of the guardship—er—er—sent me after you with it." The poor fellow seemed
covered with confusion. "Thank you," Sallie said, as she looked up at him with
great, grave, but smiling eyes and with that damnable demureness that sends men
mad about her, "but it isn’t mine. I didn’t drop anything in the launch. Thank
you so much," she smiled. "It is so kind of Captain ——. Will you thank him for
taking so much trouble?" Then after a moment’s pause she added, "No; I will
write," and beckoning me to follow she descended to the cabin, where she wrote
two blazing indiscretions, one to the Captain of the guardship and the other to
the sublieutenant who had taken us off to the _Hilda_. I strove to prevent her:
I remonstrated, I expostulated, I implored; but to no purpose. All I was there
for, it appeared, was to tell her that a launch was not a pinnace, to post her
as to other technicalities and to do the spelling. When we returned on deck the
L.-C. was drinking champagne, whilst the crew of the destroyer’s boat drank a
mute toast in grog. In their pockets they had already stowed away a handful of
Carruthers’ cigars. With much goodwill the boat put off, was hoisted aboard the
destroyer, which swung round and, with a valedictory moan from her syren, darted
off home again bearing important despatches from Sallie to the Captain of the
Medway guardship and one of his junior officers. "What did you say in that
note?" I enquired of Sallie, visions of a prosecution for forgery flitting
through my mind. "Oh, I just thanked him," said Sallie nonchalantly; but I saw
by the dancing lights in her eyes that there was something else. "And——?" I
interrogated. "Oh! I told him the truth and asked him to come to tea and bring
that nice boy who had helped us." "Sallie," I remarked severely, "captains of
battleships do not generally take their junior officers out to tea." But Sallie
only smiled. Later the cause of the young officer’s confusion was explained in a
letter he wrote to Sallie. He was engaged to Miss Crosstrees. There was an
unusual silence at the conclusion of the story, unbroken even by Bindle’s
mallet. Bindle insisted on a mallet upon being elected as chairman. It was
obvious that Sallie had cast her spell over the Night Club. "I’d a-liked to ’ave
been one o’ them officers. A real sport ’im wot didn’t give ’er away," remarked
Bindle at length meditatively. Then turning to me he enquired:

"Don’t yer think, sir, we ought to sort o’ revise them rules about ladies? We
didn’t ought to be narrow-minded." "He’s got Sallyitis," laughed Carruthers.
"Yes, I got it bad, sir," flashed Bindle, "an’ I want a smile from ’er wot give
it to me." "What about your views on hens?" enquired Dare. "Well, sir," replied
Bindle with quiet self-possession, "a single little ’en won’t do us any ’arm."
And that is how it came about that Sallie Carruthers was unanimously elected a
member of the Night Club. I doubt if anything ever gave Sallie greater pleasure
than this tribute, particularly as she was always treated as one of ourselves,
except by Angell Herald, who could never forget that he was something of a
"ladies’ man." *CHAPTER III*

*THE PRIME MINISTER DECIDES TO ADVERTISE*

One of the characteristics of the Night Club is its mixed membership. "Rummy
crowd, ain’t we?" Bindle had remarked to Sallie Carruthers the first night she
was present. "There ain’t a pair anywheres, except p’raps you an’ me, miss." And
so it was, the only thing we have in common is our humanity. To see Angell
Herald doing the "ladies’ man" to Sallie is a sight that gives the rest of us a
peculiar joy. "’E do work ’ard, an’ she bears it like a good un," was Bindle’s
comment. Angell Herald’s views on women are those of the _bon viveur_ of the
saloon bar. When he addresses Sallie his whole manner changes, just as most
people’s idiom undergoes revision when they write a letter. You can see the dear
fellow pulling himself together and, metaphorically, shooting out his cuffs and
straightening his tie as a preliminary to opening fire. His manners are superb,
elaborate, suburban. If Sallie happen to wander near the door, Angell Herald
dashes forward and opens it, attracting general attention and arresting
everybody’s conversation. "He’s got more manners than breeding," Dare once
whispered to me after a particularly elaborate demonstration of Herald’s
politeness. If Sallie rises, Herald comes to his feet with a suddenness that has
been known to overset his chair. He has no humour, but many jokes—most of which
are for men only. It took him some time to gauge his company, when Dick Little
introduced him to our circle, and it came about thus. One evening he had told a
particularly pointless "man’s story," and his was the only laugh that announced
its conclusion. Dick Little strove to smooth over the hiatus; but Bindle, whose
disgust was obvious, had thrown a bomb upon troubled waters by enquiring of Dick
Little with great innocence, "Let me see, sir, I think you said you was out o’
carbolic’!" From that date Angell Herald’s stories were merely pointless without
being obscene. Sallie’s presence was a good influence. In spite of his
limitations, Angell Herald is not a bad fellow, and he told us many amusing
stories of the "publicity" world. He knows Fleet Street thoroughly from the
"box-office" point of view, and he seems to regard the editorial aspect of the
newspaper world with amused tolerance. "Where would those scribblers be," he
would enquire with fine scorn, "without adverts.? Yet would you believe it," he
had once said to Dare, "they look down upon us?" "Most extraordinary," Dare had
responded. "Still it’s a fact," Angell Herald had assured him, with the air of a
man who knows from a friend at the Admiralty that fifty German submarines were
sunk during the previous week. Angell Herald was always the publicity agent,
even when telling his stories. Dare had once said with great truth, "There is
more herald than angel about the dear chap." Dare was particularly interested in
the following story:—

The morning had begun badly. The coffee was cold and the bacon burnt. Angell
Herald spoke to Mrs. Wiggins about it, and she had promptly given notice. In
Mrs. Wiggins it was nothing new for her to give notice. She generally did so
twice a week; but this was the third time during the current week, and it was
only Tuesday. Angell Herald had been forced to apologise. He hated
apologising—except to a client. Then there was an east wind blowing He disliked
east winds intensely, they affected his liver. On the way to the office he
called in and had his hat ironed. He also bought a rose. He always buys a rose
when there is an east wind, and he likewise always has his hat ironed; it
mitigates the pinched expression of his features. As he entered his office, he
was conscious of not replying to Pearl’s "Good morning." Pearl is Angell
Herald’s clerk, the only member of his staff. With somewhat ambiguous humour
Angell Herald calls him "the pearl of great price," as every fortnight with
painful regularity he asks for a rise—he never gets it. When Pearl is not asking
for a rise, he is soliciting a half-holiday in which either to marry a friend,
or bury a relative. Pearl is entirely lacking in originality. That is what makes
him a most admirable clerk for an advertising man. On this particular morning,
Angell Herald each had a funeral on the same day. They closed the office and met
at Epsom! Neither referred to the matter subsequently. On this particular
morning Angell Herald saw that Pearl was in a state of suppressed excitement.
Something had happened. Was it another friend desirous of getting married, or a
double death? Pearl himself, however, settled the matter by saying:

"There’s a letter from No. 110 Downing Street, sir." Then, of course, his
employer knew that it was merely insanity. "Don’t be an ass, Pearl," was the
retort. Angell Herald allows Pearl a considerable amount of licence, because he
is valuable to him. Furthermore, he permits his subordinate to joke sometimes,
in lieu of increasing his salary. Pearl’s reply was to produce a letter, franked
with the stamp of the Prime Minister. Angell Herald tore it open, hurriedly, and
read:—

To Angell Herald, Esq.,        382 Fleet Street, E.G. DEAR SIR,

Your name has been given to me as an expert in the matter of publicity. I shall
be glad if you will call here at 10.30 to-morrow with regard to a matter of
considerable importance. I am,  Yours faithfully,                 B. LLEWELLYN
JOHN. Angell Herald was overwhelmed. Mr. Llewellyn John, who had held office for
years with the Waightensea Ministry, and had just formed a Government of his
own, was sending for him, Angell Herald, Publicity Agent, and furthermore had
signed the letter himself. It was bewildering. What could it mean? Angell
Herald, turning to Pearl and, pulling himself together, announced casually:

"I shall probably be some time, Pearl. I have an engagement with"—and he mouthed
the words—"Mr. Llewellyn John, at Downing Street, at 10.30, which will probably
occupy me some time." The burnt bacon, the cold coffee, Mrs. Wiggins’ notice;
all were forgotten in the dropping of Pearl’s jaw. It was a delight to his chief
to see the clerk’s surprise. At 10.25 sharp, Angell Herald was enquiring for Mr.
Llewellyn John at 110 Downing Street. It was clear that he was expected. He was
led along a corridor, through a wide hall, and eventually into a large room.
From the further corner a little man, with generous grey hair or a more than
conventional length and a smile of bewildering sunniness, rose and came towards
him. "Mr. Angell Herald?" he enquired. Angell Herald bowed. He had momentarily
lost the power of speech. The Prime Minister held out his hand, Angell Herald
grasped it. He was prepared to grasp anything to make up for his silence. "Pray,
sit down," said the Prime Minister. "I want to have a confidential chat with
you." Angell Herald sat down. He twirled his hat in his hands. He was conscious
of the perfume of his rose, and that he was behaving like an ass. He looked
round the room. He felt he could do anything in the world save look at this
great little man, who sat smiling opposite to him. It was Mr. Llewellyn John who
broke the silence. "Now, Mr. Herald. I hear you are an expert of publicity
methods." Angell Herald bowed. "You may be wondering why I sent for you?" Angell
Herald muttered something to the effect that he was. "Well," said the Prime
Minister deliberately, "it is because I have decided to advertise." "To what,
sir?" blurted out the astonished publicity agent. "To advertise. Why should not
a Government be advertised just as a pill, a concert-singer, or a rubber-tyre?
Everybody advertises, and we must advertise. Those who don’t will go to the
wall—or in Opposition, which is the same thing." Angell Herald introduced a
tactful little laugh. It was a success. "Certainly," he replied, beginning to
feel more at ease. "Quite naturally, I agree with you. Now, an inspired article,
for instance, in _The Age_, an illustrated interview in _The Briton_, with
pictures of yourself playing with dogs, children and things, a——"

"My dear sir, those are obsolete methods. We are living in a new age, an age
that requires novelty. If you advertise in the right way, you will get your
public; but you have to hit it very hard to make it look. My friend Mr.
Chappledale, for instance, he advertises; but there is no originality in his
methods. Sir Lomas Tipton, he advertises; but how? I might endeavour to get
together a football team to ’lift’ the English Cup; but what good would that
do?" "Quite so," was the dazed response, "quite so." "Take the late Lord Range,
for instance," continued Mr. Llewellyn John. "He understood modern methods.
Instead of stating, as some antiquated Minister might, that the King and country
needed 300,000 high-explosive shells, he said: ’Lord Range calls for 300,000
high-explosive shells.’ He was up to date, and he got them. A magnificent fellow
Range. Didn’t care a—ahem! for anybody. Was even rude to me," he muttered
reminiscently. "I liked him for it. "Now take the Cyrils, that famous
Parliamentary family dating back for centuries. They do not know how to
advertise. Ten years hence there won’t be a Cyril in the House of Commons. There
may be a few in the House of Lords—that depends on democracy. "Then there’s my
old friend Waightensea. He did not advertise as the needs of the political
situation demanded he should, and the result is that he has had to go. It does
not matter who you are in these days—bishop or blacksmith, Prime Minister or
pierrot—you’ve got to advertise—the war has brought us this!" Hitherto Angell
Herald had regarded himself as second to none in the advertising world; but Mr.
Llewellyn John made him feel a child at the game. "The most far-seeing man in
Europe has been the Kaiser. He was the first who understood the true value of
advertisement, and he ran it for all he was worth. We laughed at him, but we
listened. Some people think he overdid it a little," this with a smile; "but
still among monarchs he certainly was the first to appreciate that you have got
to run a monarchy rather as you have a patent medicine, spend ninety per cent.
of your money on advertising, and the other ten per cent. on the article
itself—less if possible." Again the Prime Minister flashed upon his visitor that
bewildering smile. Angell Herald hinted that this would be a very big business,
involving many thousands of pounds. "Quite so," remarked Mr. Llewellyn John.
"Now, the point is, what can this additional expenditure be charged up against?
It can’t be travelling expenses, because even a Prime Minister could not spend
five figures a year on travelling. Secret Service would be difficult. Personally
I rather lean to the Naval Estimates." "The Naval Estimates!" cried Angell
Herald. "Exactly," was the reply. "We are always a little inclined to be
penurious over the Army; but if there is one thing that an Englishman is
generous about—always excepting the question of meals—it is the Naval Estimates.
Yes," he continued, as if to himself, "I think we might charge it up against the
Naval Estimates. "It is of no use making speeches, no one reads them. We don’t
care for politics. We are a nation of grumblers in search of scapegoats. As you
know, I broke into epigrammatic utterances. Look at their success. You will
remember what a sensation I created with that clarion call of mine, ’Now we
sha’n’t be long!’ the cables and Marconi installations thrilled and stuttered it
throughout the habitable globe. I followed it with ’’Arf a mo’,’ which was even
more popular. My greatest cry, however, was ’Pip-pip!’ which has been translated
into two hundred and eighty-seven languages and dialects." Angell Herald smiled
sympathetically. He had never felt so much like a schoolboy undergoing
instruction than as he listened to this remarkable man, who was teaching him his
own business. "And now, for the future," continued Mr. Llewellyn John, "we are
going to strike out a new line. I intend to advertise my Ministry, advertise it
as no ministry has ever been advertised before. I will make the Kaiser look
parochial and Mr. Moosephalt provincial. Now let us get down to brass tacks.
America is wonderfully apt in her expressions. I only discovered this after she
joined the Allies. Have you a notebook with you, Mr. Herald?" "Yes, sir,"
replied Angell Herald, hastily drawing one from his pocket, relieved at having
something to do. "Now listen," the Prime Minister continued. "I propose to have
pages in the principal newspapers devoted to separate subjects. One will be, for
instance, ’The Home Life of England.’  There will be pictures of myself and
family enjoying the home life, entertaining my friends at home, golfing, playing
hop-scotch with my children——"

"But," interrupted Angell Herald, "isn’t the Home Life stunt a little played
out?" "Exactly, my dear Mr. Herald, exactly. That is just what I was coming to.
There will also be pictures showing me entertaining guests at the Ritz-Carlton,
at the Opera, at the pantomime, at the theatre, at the races, at Westminster
Abbey, at boxing matches." "But," interrupted Angell Herald, "how is this to be
called ’The Home Life?’"

"My dear sir, the Larger Home Life, the Larger Home Life. Get that well into
your mind. I am appealing to the great public, not the relics of the early
Victorian Era, the Little Home-Lifers, sitting one on either side of silly
artistic fireplaces, gaping into each other’s stupid eyes, and looking and
feeling unutterably bored. Let us have the Large Home-Lifers. Occasionally, when
the weather is warm, I shall put in an appearance at the public swimming-baths;
my figure will stand it." "Excellent!" Angell Herald murmured. "Wonderful!" He
was thrilled by this man’s genius. "Then another would be ’The Fleet’—Great
Britain’s Love for Her Navy.’ It’s a fine call, it’s a thrilling call. I shall
have myself photographed entering the train, lunching in the train, getting out
of the train, being received by the local authorities. Then I shall see myself
pictured with Sir Goliath Maggie on board _The Aluminium Earl_. I shall make a
speech about the Nelson touch, dragging in the _Chesapeake_ and _Shannon_, and
touching lightly upon the story of the _Revenge_. No, on second thoughts I
cannot do that. America has come in, and Spain may at any moment. No," he added
musingly, "that will not do. They say I lack statesmanship, and that would give
them an admirable peg. No, we’ll let that go." "Then again I shall deal with the
Woman Question, from a new point of view. I shall speak more or less
sympathetically upon the subject of revolutionary propaganda and sedition. Here
I shall bring in another famous epigram I have prepared. ’The Hand that rocks
the Empire rules the World.’  I shall be photographed receiving flowers, having
my hat knocked off by an irate woman, possibly being embraced by another woman
in a moment of political ecstasy. That will appeal to the public tremendously."
"Excellent!" murmured the bewildered publicity agent, conscious of the
inadequacy of the word. "But there is one important thing. To each of these huge
scale advertisements there must be a moral. There must be something that will
appeal to the imagination of the Briton, and, as you and I know, nothing so
appeals to him as that which touches his pocket. It is Democracy that will rule
the world in future. Now in the case of the Home Life of England, for instance,
I shall comment upon the unnecessary extravagance that I have observed in
certain quarters, notably the gorgeous uniforms of the officials at the Ritz-
Carlton. I shall pass a Bill quickly through the House taxing silk stockings for
men and the wearing of calves. That will please the public. "Then with regard to
the Navy, I shall call attention to the enormous amount of brass-work. I shall
incidentally refer to the fact that something like a quarter of a million per
annum is spent on brass-polish for the Navy. I shall give the necessary orders
through the First Lord that all brass-work shall in future be japanned, and so
on." "Mr. Llewellyn John," Angell Herald burst out, "what a loss you are to the
advertising world!" The Prime Minister smiled, and continued:

"Then there comes the personal question. There must be little paragraphs about
myself constantly in the papers. For instance, as I am leaving this place I slip
in getting into my car, and have to be led back into the house. There will be
photographs of the policeman who rushes up, the look of solicitude on his face.
There will also be photographs of the policeman’s wife and the policeman’s
daughter—possibly a son or nephew serving at the front. My family will be
photographed at the windows, looking out anxiously to see what has happened.
There can also be a few personal particulars about my chauffeur. "Later I shall
be photographed limping out of the house and being helped into the car by three
secretaries, four policemen and my chauffeur. In the press there will be
comments upon my stoicism. How, in spite of being in obvious pain, I put the
affairs of the Empire before those of my own person. Later, possibly there may
be an attempt to abduct my daughter. Another time there can be an attempt on my
life." "On your life, sir?" "Oh, yes, yes," he continued airily. "These things
can always be arranged. You see, I can be walking in some lonely place, and you
can come up and—well, knock me down." "Me!" gasped Angell Herald in
ungrammatical horror. "Exactly," he replied, as if it were the most ordinary
thing in the world for a publicity-agent to knock down a Prime Minister. "A
great sensation would be created, and it would extend to the ends of the earth.
We could suggest that the Kaiser was deeply involved in the plot. "Again, I can
slip on a banana skin, and run a shirt Bill through the House providing that
everyone who eats bananas must carry about the skins until he gets home, where
they must be put in the dust-bin. This would gain for me the vote of every human
being who has ever slipped on a banana skin. "Finally we come to the
epigrammatic phrases. There is one I have in mind that should create a
sensation. It is: ’One of these days you’ll see what you won’t wait for.’  I got
it from one of the furniture men who assisted when I moved into No. 110; a droll
fellow, an exceedingly droll fellow. His name was—let me see, yes, Joseph
Bindle. I thought of asking him to join my Ministry, but I remembered the
prejudice that one has to fight in this country in all matters affecting
innovation. Another phrase that may be useful to us is: ’All is not cult that
kulturs.’

"Oh! by the way, couldn’t we run ’The Twenty-three Gentlemen who are always too
late’ on the lines of ’Ten Little Nigger Boys?’  I think there’s something in
that. "But we must first have some refreshment. Ah! here it is." A maid entered
with a tray on which were two glasses of milk and three small oatmeal biscuits.
Angell Herald took the milk, but refused the biscuits. Mr. Llewellyn John took
the other glass and a biscuit, which he put on the table beside him. When the
maid had retired he explained with a laugh:

"My official lunch, the photographer and cinema operator will be here in a
minute. We expect great things from both the photograph and the film. ’An
Ascetic Premier’ we are calling it. Now drink your milk." Angell Herald gulped
down a mouthful of the unaccustomed fluid, and put down the glass well out of
reach. "Yes," continued Mr. Llewellyn John, "there is a vast field before us.
Now, Mr. Herald, will you or will you not throw yourself wholeheartedly into
this project? It is a chance of a lifetime. Will you become the first Head of my
Publicity Bureau? You can name your own terms. I want you to do the thing
thoroughly, and no expense will be spared." For some reason or other Angell
Herald found himself dumb. He could do nothing but gaze at Mr. Llewellyn John in
bewilderment. He strove to speak. His tongue seemed to cleave to the roof of his
mouth. Mr. Llewellyn John looked at him in surprise. "Do you hear me, sir? Do
you hear me, sir?" he vociferated, banging his hand on the table. "Do you hear
me, sir?" Then something seemed to happen. The scene faded, and Angell Herald
found that it was not Mr. Llewellyn John’s voice, but that of Mrs. Wiggins; and
he was in bed, and somebody was knocking outside his door, obviously Mrs.
Wiggins. "Do you hear me, sir?" she repeated. "It is eight o’clock, and I’ve
knocked three times." "An’ you dreamt all that, sir?" enquired Bindle of Angell
Herald. "Every word of it," Herald replied as if scorning to lay claim to
imagination. "Wonderful!" was all Bindle said, and the eye that looked over the
brim of his pewter caught mine and the lid slowly drooped and then raised itself
again. There is a world of expression in Bindle’s eyes—when taken singly. The
story had really been a "rag" planned by Dick Little and Dare, whom Angell
Herald had told that he dreamed he had been asked by Mr. Llewellyn John to
become Minister of Publicity, and we had looked forward with some interest to
see how he would take the yarn. He had accepted it, without comment. "That chap
would accept anything that he thought increased his own importance," said
Carruthers after Angell Herald’s departure. "Fancy them a-knowin’ all about me
at Downin’ Street," remarked Bindle as he rose to go. *CHAPTER IV*

*THE BOY*

The "Assassins," as Carruthers called Tims’ men, were all-powerful at the Night
Club. They were always in sufficient strength to form a majority; but in reality
Bindle exercised a sort of unconscious despotism. When a question arose, we
instinctively looked to Bindle, who in turn looked to Sallie. "When I first
’eard that frogs come out o’ tadpoles, I couldn’t ’ardly believe it," Bindle
once remarked, "but when I looks at the Assassins an’ remembers that they’ll
become doctors in top ’ats, with a you-leave-it-to-me-an’-I’ll-save-yer-if-I-can
look, well, after that I’ll believe anythink." "What’s the matter with us?"
enquired Roger Blint, a little dark man with a quiet manner and a violent soul.
"Well, as far as I can see, there ain’t nothink wrong wi yer as men; but
doctors—!" Bindle shook his head despondently. "I wouldn’t trust my young life
to one of yer." Bindle fixed his gaze on Jim Colman, the recognised leader of
all demonstrations, physical and vocal. Colman has the instincts of a mob-
leader, but the most delicate "touch" among the younger men at Tims. He is
destined for Harley Street and a baronetcy. "Look at Mr. Colman," continued
Bindle. "’Ow’d jer like to ’ave ’im ’oldin’ yer ’and an’ tellin’ yer to get
ready for an ’arp?" "Well, what about Bill?" enquired Colman. "He looks harmless
enough—what?" Bill Simmonds is a little sandy fellow, with a bald, conical head,
who beams upon the world through gold-rimmed spectacles, which give him a
genial, benevolent expression. He looks for all the world like "a clever egg,"
as Dare once described him. "Well," remarked Bindle, judicially, examining Bill
Simmonds’ face, "I might be prepared to trust ’im wi’ my soul; but as for my
body, well, give me Mr. Dennett or Mr. Smith. I’m like Mrs. B.; I like ’em big."
Hugh Dennett is an international three-quarter who has made football history,
whereas Archie Smith was the amateur champion heavy-weight when the war broke
out. "I ain’t got anythink to say against you as sports," said Bindle
encouragingly; "but as doctors, well, well!" And again he shook his head with
mournful conviction. Tims’ men never talk "shop," but from scraps of
conversation among themselves that I have overheard, theirs is a strenuous life.
Sometimes they do not see their beds for three consecutive nights; yet they are
always cheery and regard whatever they have to do as their "bit." One complaint
they have, that they are not allowed to go to the front. All seem to find in the
Night Club relaxation from strenuous days and sleepless nights. According to
Bindle, who is a recognised authority upon such matters, they are a cheer-o!
crowd. It was they who had been loudest in their support of Sallie’s election,
and when "the Boy’s" story came to be told, they were equally definite in their
view that he must be invited to join our exclusive circle. These were the only
two instances of stories told at the Night Club resulting in our membership
being increased. Incidentally the Boy fell in love with Sallie, and this formed
an additional bond of sympathy between him and us. *I*

To his brother officers he was always "The Boy." The men, with more directness
of speech, referred to him as "The Kid," whilst at Whitehall he was known as
Second Lieut. Richard St. John Custance Summers, of the 8th Service Battalion
Westshire Regiment. How he managed to secure his commission no one ever knew.
"Must ’a been ’is bloomin’ smile," was the opinion of the platoon sergeant,
expressed to the company-sergeant-major. "The men make fools o’ theirselves
about the Kid." Chubby-faced, languid of manner, forgetful and "frightfully
sorry" afterwards, even in his khaki he did not look more than sixteen. At mess
he sat as if he had collapsed from sheer lack of bone necessary to keep him
rigid. He literally lolled through life. In carrying out his duties, such as he
was unsuccessful in evading, he gave the impression of being willing in spirit,
but finding great difficulty in getting his body to respond to his wishes. One
day the Colonel, a big blue-eyed man, whom the men called "the Kid’s nurse," had
told him that he had "the spirit of a martinet, but the body of a defaulter,"
which was not a bad description for the C.O., who did not incline to epigram.
When given an order, the Boy would salute, with that irresistible smile of his
that got him out of some scrapes and into others, then off he would lounge, all
legs and arms, like a young colt, although as a matter of fact he was below
medium height. When he made a mistake the N.C.O.’s and men contrived to correct
it, with the result that his was the smartest platoon in the battalion. The
Senior Major had once said to him:

"Boy, you’re the slackest young cub I’ve ever met, yet you get more out of the
men than the Colonel and I combined. How is it?" "I suppose, sir," replied the
Boy with great seriousness, "they see I’m such an awful ass that they’re sorry
for me." The Boy got more leave and took more leave than any other officer in
the division, and no one seemed to resent it. He never did anything in quite the
same way as another youngster would, and he was a constant source of interest to
his brother officers. One roystering night he had returned to his quarters in a
state ill-befitting "an officer and a gentleman," and the company-sergeant-
major, aided by a corporal, had put him to bed and they had mutually sworn
eternal secrecy. In the morning, although the two non-coms. had managed to
convey to him that only they knew of the episode, the Boy had gone to the
Colonel, and before the other officers said:

"I returned to barracks last night drunk, sir. I was very drunk and I think I
was singing. I’m sorry. It sha’n’t occur again." The Colonel asked who had seen
him, and on being told that only the company-sergeant-major and a corporal knew
of the incident, he burst out with:

"Then why the devil do you tell me about it?" "I wanted you to know, sir. It was
rather rotten of me. I know you hate it, sir, and it’s a bad example." The C.O.
turned aside to hide a smile. The idea of the Boy being an example to anyone or
anything amused him; but being a disciplinarian, and understanding something of
the Boy’s nature, he stopped a week-end leave due some ten days hence, and from
the Boy’s smile as he saluted he saw that he had done the right thing. One day
the Boy was given charge of his company in a sham fight, at which as everybody
knew the Brigadier was to be present. With his command, the Boy was like a
kitten with a skein of wool. He got it hopelessly tangled. Perspiring and
swearing N.C.O.’s strove in vain to evolve order and find out exactly where they
were. Suddenly, with a yell to fix bayonets and charge, the Boy darted forward
followed by the men in a manner that would have broken the heart of a drill-
sergeant. They had blundered upon an enemy field battery in the act of limbering
up, and the Boy returned to camp with six guns and a stream of prisoners, and
the Brigadier had spoken to the Colonel of the exploit. "Talk about luck!
Blimey! That Kid’ll save the bloomin’ regiment one o’ these days," grinned a
private, as the boy marched with rather a bored air at the head of his day’s
bag. The Boy continued to avoid as if by instinct all the duties he possibly
could. Indeed, he was apparently aided and abetted by officers and men alike.
When at last the word arrived to prepare to entrain for an unknown destination,
the Boy’s chief concern had been about his kit. The C.O.’s instructions had been
definite and incisively expressed. He ordered that nothing be taken that was not
absolutely necessary, and had added that he did not want to see France lumbered
up with cast-off articles of kit of the 8th Westshires. There had been rather a
heated argument between the Boy and his captain as to the interpretation of the
word "necessaries." "My boot-trees and manicure set," said the Boy, "are as
necessary to me as your trousers are to you." "Rot!" the captain had replied.
"You’ll be thinking more of your skin than of your nails when you get out
there." The Boy had compromised by leaving the boot-trees and taking a pocket
manicure set. In the trenches he was the same imperturbable, languid half boy,
half man he had been in England. He was as indifferent to shells and bullets as
to the grins of the men as he lolled against the parados polishing his nails.
Sometimes he would bewail the lost boot-trees as he surveyed his hopeless-
looking foot-gear. At first the uncleanliness of trench life had roused him from
his accustomed languor, but later he accepted this and what it entailed, not
with philosophic calm, but because protest involved effort. Even when towards
the end of the September that culminated in Loos it became known that the 8th
Westshires were to take part in "the big push," and whilst officers and men were
eagerly discussing their chances, he remained his sunny, imperturbable self. On
the night before the charge, the Colonel had sent for him to go to his dug-out,
and there had told him that early in the morning he was to go back with an
important message to Divisional headquarters and await a reply, which he was to
bring back after the action. Without a word the Boy gave the necessary
acknowledgment and saluted, but there was a mutinous look in his eyes as he
wheeled round and left the Colonel’s dug-out. He spoke to no one, although many
of his brother officers watched him to see how he would take it. The C.O. had
conferred with the Senior Major, and decided that he could not risk the Boy’s
life, a view that was entirely endorsed by every officer and man in the
regiment. For hours the Boy stood brooding and polishing his nails. Then, just
before "stand-to" he disappeared. His captain was the first to discover the
fact, and enquiry was made along the whole line of trenches, but no one had seen
the Boy for at least half an hour. *II*

The guns had opened their brazen throats in a frenzy of hate. Overhead shells
whistled and hissed, lumbered and howled as they tore towards the enemy
trenches, a hurricane of screaming hate. Gusts of shrapnel spat death from
above, and rifle and machine-gun bullets buried themselves impotently in the
sandbags amid little puffs of dust. Slowly dawn shivered into day—a day of
greyness and of death. In the assembly-trench the 8th Westshires were waiting.
Heavy-eyed and silent they gazed towards the enemy lines, hidden by a curtain of
dense yellow smoke. Against the parapet scaling ladders were placed ready. At a
word, a short snapping sound barked along the trench, the ladders suddenly
became alive, as men scrambled up and passed over the top, or fell backward with
a dull thud. "No rushing, a steady advance in open order," had been the
Colonel’s last words to his officers. The 8th Westshires formed up and, as
steady as on parade, advanced. They had not proceeded more than thirty yards
when with a sigh a breeze swept past them and carried the yellow gas beyond the
first enemy trench, like a curtain of fairy gauze. Machine-guns and rifles
poured a merciless fire into the Westshires. Everywhere men were dropping,
silently or with little coughs of surprise. They advanced a further twenty yards
and then faltered. With a shout the Colonel dashed on waving his stock. The
moment of uncertainty seemed to pass, when suddenly the Colonel dropped. "My
God!" muttered the Senior Major, as he saw the indecision pass like a wave along
the line; he also noticed several men had turned and were stealing back to the
trenches they had just left. "They’ll—they’ll——" and there was a sob in his
voice. Just at the moment when retreat seemed inevitable, a figure rose from a
small shell-crater, and with a yell that no one heard waved on the Westshires.
"It’s the Boy," gasped an officer. "Where the hell——"

"It’s the bloomin’ Kid. Well I’m damned!" roared the colour sergeant. "’Ere,
come on, or they’ll nab ’im." This was enough for the Westshires. Capture the
Kid? Not if they knew it. With a howl they raced for the enemy trench,
overtaking the Boy two yards from the sand-bags. The men’s blood was up. They
tumbled into the first trench, and with a sickening "sog sog" their bayonets got
to work. Little coughs and grunts told of men doubled up. Everywhere cries of
"Kamerad" were heard. "It’s no use yellin’, sonny," one man was heard to say.
"You’ve got to ’ave it—you’ve go to ’ave it!" and he drove his bayonet into a
German’s massive loins. The Boy had come through untouched. Like a moth he
flitted about from place to place, and wherever he was, there the fighting would
be at its fiercest. Not only had the second line of trenches been taken in
accordance with instructions, but the Westshires had crushed all resistance in
the first, which they should have left to a following battalion. The work done,
the Boy called two stretcher-bearers, and went back in search of the Colonel.
*III*

That night the Colonel sat in a German dugout, with a heavily bandaged leg. He
had refused to go to the rear. He must first see the Boy. When he entered, the
Boy saluted and stood as if waiting for something that he knew would happen, but
in which he was not particularly interested. "What have you to say?" the Colonel
enquired with unsmiling eyes. In the 8th Westshires officers and men alike
dreaded the absence of that smile which seemed so much a part of the Colonel’s
eyes. The Boy hung his head. "I’m sorry, sir," he said, in a low, husky voice.
"You remember my orders?" "Yes, sir." "Yet you absented yourself without leave."
"It was——" the Boy stopped; his voice seemed suddenly to forsake him. Then after
a moment’s pause the words came in a rush. "It was the old dad, sir. I’ve never
let him know I’m such a rotter. If he knew I was sent to rear before the charge
it would have crocked him. He—he—thinks no end of me." The Boy stopped again and
looked at the Colonel. "I crept out this morning, and lay in a small crater near
our trench until the advance. I was going to join up and I thought I should get
killed. He would sooner have me dead than not there. I’m sorry, sir—I’m——"  The
Boy’s voice trailed off into a sob. "You know what you did to-day?" enquired the
Colonel. The smile was back in his eyes, but the Boy did not see it. "Deserted!"
The word came out with a jerk. "Yes, you deserted—that is, technically—but you
saved the whole battalion from being cut up and—possibly disgraced." The Boy
looked at the C.O. in wonder. He blinked his eyes uncertainly. "I—I don’t——"

"Listen, Boy! You were sent out by my orders on listening-patrol, and told to
join up with the Battalion when it advanced. You did so, do you understand?"
"But listening-patrols aren’t sent out under bombardment, sir." "Damn you, Boy,
what the devil do you mean? Am I C.O. or you?" The Colonel wanted to laugh and
simulated anger to preserve his authority. "I’m sorry, sir; but——"

"Well, never mind about listening-patrol. I shall send an account of your
services to the General that will get you the D.S.O., possibly the V.C. I will
write to the—er—old dad myself." The Colonel’s voice was husky. "Now, get out,
Boy, damn it—get out at once!" And the Boy got out. There was the vigour of
conviction in Bindle’s play with his mallet, and the hum of talk at the
conclusion of the story made it obvious that the Boy had considerably enlarged
the circle of his friends. "He’s a dear!" Sallie blinked her eyes vigorously.
They were suspiciously moist. "’Ere, ’ere, miss," agreed Bindle. As a matter of
fact Bindle always agrees with anything that Sallie says. "I say, Windover,
couldn’t you bring him round one night?" enquired Dick Little. "I’ll try," said
Windover. "He’s stationed at Wimbledon now." "And did he get the V.C.?" enquired
the practical-minded Angell Herald. "No, the D.S.O.," replied Windover, "with
promotion to a first lieutenancy." "What a shame," said Sallie, and turning to
Windover she said, "You will bring him, Winnie, won’t you?" Sallie and Windover
are old friends. And that is how the Boy became a "Night-Clubber." He is a
strange combination of impudence and innocence; but there is one way of bringing
him to heel. It was quite by accident that I discovered it. One evening he had
been roasting poor Angell Herald rather badly, and although that astute person
was sublimely unaware of what was taking place, both Dick Little and I thought
things had gone far enough. I happened to have with me the manuscript of the
story of how the Boy got his D.S.O. Without a word I started reading from it in
a loud voice. I had not got six lines down the page before he slowly dragged
himself out of the armchair in which he was lounging, his face crimson, and,
walking towards the door, remarked:

"You’ll find me on the mat when you’ve done reading rot." That is the Boy all
over. *CHAPTER V*

*THE BARABBAS CLUB*

I have some acquaintance with authors; but of all I have encountered Jocelyn
Dare is in many ways the most remarkable. Careless, generous, passionate, he is
never so happy as when narrating the enormities of publishers. His white,
delicate fingers will move nervously, his long black locks fall over his
alabaster forehead, and his black eyes flash as he describes the doings of these
"parasites" and "pariahs," as he calls them. He is a thoroughly good fellow in
spite of this eccentricity, never withholding a helping hand from anyone. I
believe he would succour even a publisher if he found one in need of help; but
he can no more resist denouncing the fraternity than he can keep the flood of
raven hair from falling over his eyes when he becomes excited. Bindle likes him,
and that is a testimonial. They have something in common, as Dare’s heart, like
Bindle’s "various" veins, is a bar to his doing his bit, and Dare feels it as
much as does Bindle. "I like to listen to Mr. Gawd Blast ’ammerin’ tacks into
publishers," Bindle would remark appreciatively. "An’ don’t ’e know some words
too!" Dare’s vocabulary is almost unique. He is a master of the English tongue.
At rhetorical invective I have never heard his equal, and I have encountered a
Thames lighterman in one of his inspired moments. Bindle would sit in mute
admiration, watching Dare as he flung the mantle of obloquy over "that cancer
polluting the face of God’s fair earth. "*

*To those who are not authors it should be explained that Dare refers to
publishers as a whole. It was Dare who told us the story of the author who,
unable to extract his royalties from a publisher, seized him by the beard and
swore he would hang on until the money was forthcoming. "And that," he
concluded, "is why not one publisher in a hundred wears a beard." It was Dare,
too, who told us of the author who went to a certain well-known publisher with a
manuscript, saying, "My previous books have been published by—(and he mentioned
the names of three honoured firms)—and they were rogues to a man, did me right
and left, only I could never catch them, not even with the help of the Society
of Authors. So I’ve brought my new book to you, Mr. Blank." The publisher was
delighted at the compliment and, smiling in his most winning manner, enquired,
"And may I ask why you come to me, sir?" He waited expectantly, his lips still
bearing the after-glow of the smile. "I come to you, Mr. Blank," the author
replied impressively, "because you are an honest man." And the publisher
fainted. Dare would laugh with the joyousness of a schoolboy when telling these
yarns. But there is no malice in him. He is as mischievous as a puppy; but as
soft-hearted as a woman. There is something strangely lovable about Dare.
Certain of his mannerisms are in themselves feminine; yet he is never
effeminate. One of these mannerisms is what might be called the fugitive touch,
which is with a woman a caress. He will lay his hand upon your coatsleeve just
for a second, or put it across your shoulders, a slight brushing movement, which
betokens comradeship. He adores children. I have seen him, when exquisitely
turned out in top hat and morning coat, pick up a howling youngster that had
come a cropper, brush it down, stay its cries and stop its tears, and send it
home wreathed in rainbow smiles, clutching a generous-sized bag of sweets. Such
is Jocelyn Dare. When the time came for a story, he told that of the Barabbas
Club. For some time I hesitated to write it up for the Night Club. I regarded it
as too limited in its appeal. At last, however, I decided to let the Club judge
for itself. Dare took great interest in the writing of the story, and himself
read and corrected the typescript. *I*

"My dear fellow," said Jocelyn Dare, "the Seven-headed Beast of the Apocalypse
is nothing to it. It’s absolutely unique." With the air of a man who has
completed a life’s work, Dare tapped some sheets of manuscript that lay upon the
table, selected a cigarette from the box with a care and deliberation usually
bestowed upon cigars, and proceeded: "You are a doctor, whose mission in life is
to purge and purify the human body; I am a novelist whose purpose it is to
perform the same office for the human soul." From the depths of a particularly
comfortable easy-chair, Dick Little looked up good-humouredly at his friend.
"You’re a queer devil, Dare. One of these days you’ll get a shock—poseurs always
do." Dare laughed easily, and Dick Little continued. "But what have publishers
to do with the human soul? That’s what puzzles me." "There is only one thing, my
poor Little," replied Dare, looking down at the other with a smile of pity,
"that makes friendship between you and me at all possible." "And that is?" "Your
incomparable understanding of my corpus, which you persist in calling my liver.
I give you all credit for this. You know my constitution to a nicety, and in a
way you are responsible for my novels." "Good God!" ejaculated Dick Little,
sitting up in his chair with an expression of alarm upon his features. "I hope
not." "Listen!" said Dare. "A publisher is an obstacle to intellectual progress.
He is a parasite, battening upon the flower of genius. That is why we founded
the Barabbas Club. It frankly encourages authors to quarrel with their
publishers. No one is eligible for membership who cannot prove conclusively to
the Committee that he has been extremely rude to at least one publisher. I
myself have been grossly insulting to seventeen different publishers, on several
occasions before their own clerks. I have taken three into Court—I confess I
lost each case—and I horsewhipped him who published _The Greater Purity_ because
he failed to advertise it sufficiently." "And what happened?" queried Dick
Little, who had heard the story a score of times. "I was summonsed for assault.
The magistrate was a creature entirely devoid of literary perception. He fined
me five guineas, plus five guineas damages, and two guineas costs. But wait! Now
here comes the shameful part of the story. Later I discovered that I had been
wrong about the advertising. I wrote to that worm, that foul weed who is
poisoning the slopes of Parnassus, apologising for whipping him, and will you
believe it, he absolutely refused to return the five guineas damages?" Dick
Little laughed. He always laughed to see Dare upon his hobby-horse. "The result
of that case was an addition to the rules of the Barabbas Club, by which it was
provided that, whenever an author horsewhipped a publisher, with or without
justification, the president of the club should resign, and his place be
automatically filled by the horsewhipper." Dick Little rose from his chair,
stretched himself lazily, lighted another cigarette and prepared to take his
departure. "One moment, my dear fellow," remarked Dare, "I must tell you
something about this, _The Damning of a Soul_." He tapped the manuscript upon
the table. "It gives a picture of a publisher, so vivid, so horrible, so
convincing, that I shudder when I think that anything so vile can be permitted
to exist by our most gracious sovereign lady, Nature. It tells of the gradual
intellectual murder of a great genius through lack of proper advertising by his
publisher. ’It is a masterly picture of the effect of advertising matter upon
imaginative mind.’  I quote the words of our President. It will create a
sensation." "But what about libel?" enquired Dick Little, whose more cautious
nature saw in this same masterpiece a considerable danger to its author. "There
is my master-stroke. My Beast, which transcends that of the Apocalypse in
horror-compelling reality, is, as was that, a composite creature. I have drawn
upon the whole of the seventeen publishers with whom I have had differences. One
supplies ’a nervous, deceitful cough,’ another ’an overbearing manner,’ a third
’a peculiar habit of crossing and recrossing his legs,’ a fourth ’a swindling
propensity when the day of reckoning arrives,’ a fifth ’a thoroughly unclean and
lascivious life,’ a sixth ’a filthy habit of spitting into the fireplace from
every conceivable angle of his room,’ a seventh——"

"Enough! I must be off," laughed Dick Little. "I suppose it’s all right; but one
of these days you’ll get yourself into a bit of a mess. There may be the devil
to pay over this even." Dare smiled indulgently as he shook hands. "Good-bye, my
Æsculapius," he said. "If there’s trouble, I have behind me the whole of the
members of the Barabbas Club, representing eight hundred and thirteen volumes,
and the brains of the country. Good-bye." There was a note of weariness about
Dare’s voice. Materialism was exceedingly tedious. "Well, it’s his affair, not
mine," muttered Dick Little to himself as he descended the stairs of Dare’s
flat; "but they don’t fight with books in the King’s Bench Division." *II*

Three weeks later, on returning from a fortnight’s holiday in Scotland, Dick
Little found awaiting him at his chambers the following note from Dare:—

"Come round at once. There is not the Devil, but the publishers to pay. Bring a
hypodermic syringe and a pint of morphia.—"J.D." Dick Little had been out of the
world, and he had forgotten all about _The Damning of a Soul_ and his own
misgivings. Having seen a few of his more important patients, he walked round to
his friend’s flat and found Dare in a pathetic state of gloom. "Have you brought
the hypodermic syringe and the morphia?" he asked without troubling to greet his
visitor. "What! Tired of life?" questioned Dick Little smiling. "I am tired of a
civilization that is rotten, and which makes injustice possible." "What has
happened?" "I published _The Damning of a Soul_ in _The Cormorant_, and arranged
with the editor for a copy to be sent to every publisher in the country. Ye
gods!" and Dare laughed mirthlessly. "And what happened!" asked Dick Little.
"Twenty-five writs for libel up to date," groaned Dare, "and God knows how many
more to come." Dick Little laughed loud and long. "How many publishers went to
the making of your Beast of Parnassus?" he asked. "Only seventeen; that’s the
peculiarly damnable part of it. "And what do they say at _The Cormorant_?"
"Well, I’ve kept away from the offices, where all the writs have been served by
the way, and I’ve written a formal protest to the Postmaster-General against the
use of the telephone for language that is entirely unfit for even the smoking-
room of a woman’s club. _Now_ they write; but as I don’t read the letters, it
doesn’t matter so much." "The editor is in a passion, I suppose?" "No; he’s in a
nursing-home. He’s a master of diplomacy," replied Dare wearily. "I’d do the
same, only I can’t afford the fees. It’s the general-manager who telephones. I’m
going to put him in my next novel, curse him!" "In addition to a writ," Dare
proceeded, "each publisher has written me a letter, ’without prejudice’ and with
considerable heat." "What about?" enquired Dick Little, thoroughly interested in
the curious situation that had arisen out of Dare’s unfortunate story. "The man
who crosses and recrosses his legs says that he is the only publisher in the
world with that characteristic, and that I accuse him of unclean morals, as if a
publisher had any morals, clean or otherwise. He of the nervous cough objects to
the adjective ’deceitful,’ and is having his books examined by an accountant He
who salivates into the fireplace from impossible angles, is producing the
testimony of three specialists to prove that he has chronic bronchitis, and that
it is neither infectious nor contagious, and so on." Dare’s voice trailed off
drearily. "And what do you propose to do?" questioned Dick Little. "Do?"
enquired the other, listlessly throwing himself into a chair and lighting a
cigarette. "Do? Why, nothing. That’s why I want the morphia. I’m the imperfect,
not the present tense. I’m done." "How about the Barabbas Club?" asked Dick
Little. "Dissolved." Dick Little whistled. "Dissolved," continued Dare, "because
its work is accomplished, vide the Presidential valediction. I don’t see how;
but it’s too tedious to bother about." Dick Little went to the sideboard and
poured out some water into a glass, then emptying into it the contents of a
small phial that he took from his pocket, returned to where Dare sat and bade
him drink. "What is it—a death potion?" enquired Dare lazily as he swallowed the
dose. "Wait and see!" replied the other. For a quarter of an hour they smoked in
silence. Suddenly Dare bounded into the air, and rushed to the telephone.
"Piccadilly 1320, quickly," he shouted. Then a minute later, "That _The
Cormorant_? I want the general-manager. Yes; it’s me. Oh, shut up! I’ve got a
plan. Coming round. Three more writs? Wish it were thirty. We’ll do ’em
yet—’bye." Snatching up his hat and entirely oblivious of his friend’s presence,
Dare rushed out of the room; and a moment later the bang of the front door told
that he had left the flat. "Never saw strychnine act so before," muttered Dick
Little as he picked up his hat and gloves and prepared to go. *III*

Ten days later as Dick Little sat in the consulting-room of his surgery, waiting
for seven o’clock to strike that the first patient might be admitted, Jocelyn
Dare burst through the door followed by the protesting parlour-maid. "Sorry, old
man; but I had to tell you. We’ve won. It’s a triumph for Letters, and all due
to your science and my brain. As I said before, your understanding of my corpus
is incomparable." "It’s five minutes to seven," remarked Dick Little evenly,
"and the first patient enters at seven." "Of course. Well, three minutes will
suffice. I found a scapegoat." "A what?" "A scapegoat. You see if I could prove
that my publisher was some particular person, we should have only one action to
defend; but if that publisher were dead, and we could square his relatives, then
we were safe. "I set about discovering a dead publisher, and you would be
astonished to find how rare they are. They seem to be immortal, like their
asinine brothers. At last I lighted upon Sylvester Mylton, who died a bankrupt
nearly a year ago. By great good luck I ran his wife to earth. She was in
terrible straits, almost starving, poor woman." "But what——"

"Wait a moment. I showed her the article, and told her that I felt that I had
done a dishonourable thing in writing about the dead as I had done, and would
she accept five pounds as compensation. Heavens! I don’t think the money pleased
her so much as the knowledge that the iniquitous Mylton had been pilloried. He
had made her life a curse." "So far so good. I had to remind her of a few of his
characteristics; but she’s a shrewd woman, and hunger you know. Now read this."
Dare held out a copy of the current issue of _The Cormorant_, pointing to a page
bordered by the portraits of thirty publishers. Within the pictorial frame
appeared the following:—

THIRTY WRITS FOR LIBEL

AN EXTRAORDINARY OCCURRENCE

A SENSITIVE PROFESSION

"Three weeks ago we published a story from the brilliant pen of Mr. Jocelyn Dare
entitled _The Damning of a Soul_, in which was given a vivid picture of an
unscrupulous, immoral, gross, and dishonest publisher—a man capable of any
vileness, who had by under-advertising the work of a promising young author,
damned him for ever. Soon after the appearance of our issue containing Mr.
Dare’s contribution, writs began to rain in upon us until there was scarcely a
publisher in London who had not instructed his solicitors to proceed against us
for criminal libel, as, in our picture of the unscrupulous publisher, he thought
he saw himself depicted. "Although we fully recognise the obligations of the
living towards the dead, we are, in self-defence, forced to publish a letter
that we have received from the wife of the late Sylvester Mylton, the well-known
publisher, who died some months ago. It runs:—

"’DEAR SIR,

"’I have read with deep pain and regret the story in your issue of the 2nd
inst., entitled _The Damning of a Soul_. In the character of the publisher I
recognise my late husband. None can mistake ’the overbearing manner,’ ’that
peculiar habit of crossing and recrossing his legs,’ ’the nervous, deceitful
cough,’ ’the habit of spitting into the fireplace from every conceivable angle
of his room,’ although I must add that his accuracy was astonishing. With regard
to the other points, I can only say that of recent years I declined to live with
him because of the creatures with whom he associated—I do not refer to his
authors. I regret that you should have brought him so prominently before the
public, and I hope you will send me ten or a dozen copies of your issue
containing the story. "’I am,        "’Yours sincerely,               "’ARABELLA
MYLTON.’

"We can only express regret that so many publishers should have thought our
story referred to them. We thought that Mr. Dare had painted so vile and
heartless a wretch as to prevent any self-respecting publisher from seeing in
such a creature any resemblance to himself. Apparently not. Surely Mecænas is
the most sensitive of beings. We may add that we shall defend each of the
actions threatened. We embellish this page with portraits of the publishers who
have caused us be served with writs." Dick Little read the page with
astonishment. "By heavens! what a score," he shouted. "And the writs?" "All
withdrawn, and the Barabbas Club has regathered and is dining me at the Ritz
tonight. God knows who’ll pay the bill. I must be off to dress." And that
evening Dick Little thought more of the sensibilities of publishers and the
brains of authors than the ailments of his patients. "Fancy publishers bein’ as
bad as that," remarked Bindle reflectively, as he took a long pull at his
tankard. "They seem to beat foremen." "Publishers," said Dare, "are pompous
asses. If they were business men—if they were only men-of-letters, I would
embrace them." "P’raps that’s why they ain’t," suggested Bindle. Dare joined in
the laugh against himself. "I have known some publishers," remarked Angell
Herald with characteristic literalness, "who have been most excellent
advertisers. I fear Mr. Dare is rather prejudiced." "Shut up, Herald," broke in
Dick Little, "you’re thinking ’shop.’"

"P’raps they’ve got ’various’ veins* in their legs, or else their missusses ’ave
got religion," suggested Bindle. "It ain’t fair to judge no man till you seen
’is missus, an’ a doctor’s seen ’is legs—beggin’ your pardon, miss," this to
Sallie. *Bindle has been repeatedly refused for the Army on account of varicose
veins in his legs, and he shows a tendency to regard this affliction as at the
root of all evil. *CHAPTER VI*

*I FAIL THE NIGHT CLUB*

One evening I failed the Club badly. During the previous week there had not been
a moment in which to complete the half-written story intended for that
particular Sunday. I had done my best; but I arrived at Chelsea with the
knowledge that I had let them all down. When I had made my confession, Bindle
turned to me with grave reproach in his eyes. "I’m surprised at you, sir," he
said, "I been lookin’ forward all the week to this evenin’, an’ now you tell us
you ain’t got nothink. Wot we goin’ to do?" My unpopularity was sufficiently
obvious to penetrate the thickest of skins. "What about bridge?" ventured Tom
Little. But Bindle was opposed to every suggestion made. It was clear that he
was greatly disappointed, and he seemed to find solace nowhere, not even in his
tankard of ale. "You done the dirty on us to-night, sir," he said during a pause
in the fusillade of personalities and rather feeble suggestions as to how thee
evening should be spent. "Sort o’ thing a foreman ’ud do." It was Jocelyn Dare
who came to the rescue. "What," he asked, "can you expect of a publisher? He has
sufficient manners to impress a half-dipped author, and not enough morals to pay
him what is his due." "My dear Dare," it was Windover who spoke, "are you not
inverting the values? Our friend Bindle here, for instance, might reasonably
conceive that you place morals on a higher plane than manners. Bindle is young
and unsophisticated, you must remember he has arrived at an impressionable age."
Bindle grinned. He scented a battle between Windover and Dare, both brilliant
and amusing talkers. "I’m a Victorian," replied Dare, accepting the challenge
with alacrity, "a member of the middle-classes, the acknowledged backbone of the
English nation." "Yes, and like all other respectable backbones should be
covered up," retorted Windover. "Alas!" murmured Dare, gazing at the ceiling.
"Once youth was content with Arcadia, now it demands a Burlington Arcadia." That
was characteristic of Dare. An epigram to him justified the most flagrant
irrelevancy. Then turning to Windover he added, "But I interrupted you. Let us
have your views on morals and manners, or should I say manners and morals?" "Yes
do, sir," broke in Bindle eagerly, "My missus once said I ’adn’t no more morals
than Pottyfer’s wife, I dunno the lady, but p’raps you can ’elp me." "The
association of morals and manners is merely a verbal coincidence," began
Windover. "As a matter of fact they exist best apart. Morals are geographical,
the result of climate and environment. The morals of Streatham, for instance,
are not the morals of Stamboul, although the manners of the one place will pass
fairly well in the other. Manners are like English gold, current in all
countries: morals, on the other hand, are like French pennies, they must not be
circulated in any but the country of their origin." "Yes; but is this the age of
manners or of morals?" asked Dare. "That’s what we want to get at." "Of neither,
I regret to say," responded Windover. "We have too many morals at home, and too
few manners abroad." "Excuse me, sir," broke in Bindle, "but wot do you exactly
mean by morals an’ manners?" "You are right, Bindle, you invariably are,"
replied Windover. "Definition should always precede disquisition." He proceeded
to light a cigarette, obviously with a view to gaining time. "Observing this
rule," he continued, "I will define morals as originally an ethical conception
of man’s duty towards his neighbour’s wife: they are now in use merely as a
standard by which we measure failure." Windover paused and gazed meditatively at
the end of his cigarette. "And manners?" I queried. "Oh! manners," he replied
lightly, "are a thin gauze with which we have clothed primæval man and primitive
woman." "But why," enquired Sallie, leaning forward eagerly, "why should the
primitive and primæval require covering?" It was Dare who answered Sallie’s
question. "Mark Twain said, ’Be good; but you’ll be lonely,’" he observed. "Man
probably found it impossible to be good, being gregarious by instinct. He saw
that Nature was always endeavouring to get him involved in difficulties with
morals, and like the detective of romance, determined to adopt a disguise. He
therefore invented manners." "I will not venture to question Dare’s brilliant
hypothesis," continued Windover. "With the aid of good manners a man may do
anything, and a woman quite a lot of things otherwise denied her. It is manners
not morals that make a society. Manners will open for you all doors; but morals
only the gates of heaven." "As a eugenist I am with you, Windover," said Dare;
"because both manners and eugenics are the study of good breeding." "Excuse me,
sir," broke in Bindle, "but do yer think yer could use a few words wot I’ve
’eard before? I’d sort o’ feel more at ’ome like." There was a laugh at
Windover’s expense, and a promise from him to Bindle to correct his phraseology.
"Morals," continued Windover, "are merely the currency of deferred payment—you
will reap in another world." "That’s wot Mrs. B. says," broke in Bindle; "but
wot if she gets disappointed? It ’ud be like goin’ dry all the week to ’ave a
big lush up on Sunday, an’ then findin’ the pubs closed." "Excellent! Bindle,"
said Windover, "you prove conclusively that the future is for the proletariat."
"Fancy me a-provin’ all that," said Bindle with unaccustomed dryness.
"Morality," continued Windover with a smile, "is merely post-dated self-
indulgence. There is a tendency to expect too much from the other world. Think
of the tragedy of the elderly spinster who apparently regulated her life upon a
misreading of a devotional work. She denied herself all the joys of this world
in anticipation of the great immorality to come." "That’s jest like Mrs. B.,"
remarked Bindle, "Outside a tin o’ salmon, an’ maybe an egg for ’er tea, there
ain’t much wot ’olds ’er among what she calls the joys o’ mammon." "Mrs.
Bindle," said Windover, picking out another cigarette from the box and tapping
it meditatively, "is in all probability intense. Most moral people are intense.
They either have missions or help to support them. They wear ugly and sombre
clothing adorned with crewel-work stoles. They frequently subsist entirely upon
vegetables and cereals, they live in garden-cities and praise God for it——"

"I, too, praise God that they should live there," broke in Dare. "Exactly, my
dear Dare, probably the only approval that providence ever receives from you is
of a negative order." "You forget the heroes and heroines of morals, Windover,"
said Dare gently. "Penelope, Lucrece, Clarissa Harlowe, Sir Galahad." "Manners,
too, have had as doughty champions," was the reply, "for instance, the Good
Samaritan, Lord Chesterfield, and the wedding guest in _The Ancient Mariner_.
Manners are social and public, whilst morals are national and private. All
attractive people have good manners, whereas—well there were the Queen of Sheba,
Byron and Dr. Crippen." Bindle looked from Windover to Dare, hopelessly
bewildered. He refrained from interrupting, however. "Our morals affect so few,"
continued Windover, "whereas our manners react upon the whole fabric of society.
A man may be a most notorious evil-liver, and yet pass among his fellows without
inconveniencing them; on the other hand, if he be a noisy eater he will render
himself obnoxious to hundreds. Manners are for the rose-bed of life, morals for
the deathbed of repentance." "All this is very pretty verbal pyrotechnics," said
Dare with a smile; "but you forget that the greatness of England is due to her
moral fibre. I grant you that morality is very ugly, and its exponents dour of
look and rough of speech, still it is the foundation of the country’s
greatness." "There you are wrong," was Windover’s retort, "it is not her
morality that has made for this country’s greatness, but her moral standard,
coupled with the determination of her far-seeing people not to allow it to
interfere with their individual pleasures. They decided that theirs should be a
standard by which to measure failure. The result of this has been to earn for us
in Europe the reputation of being a dour and godly people, who regard the flesh
and the devil through a stained-glass window. They forget that to preserve the
purity of his home life, the Englishman invented the continental excursion."
"But what about puritan America?" broke in Dare. "If we are smug, they are
superlative in their smugness." "You forget, Dare," said Windover reproachfully,
"that they have their ’unwritten law,’ said to be the only really popular law in
the country, with which to punish moral lapses. To explain the punishment, they
created ’brain storm’; but it cannot compare with our incomparable moral
standard. It is England’s greatest inheritance." Windover paused to light the
cigarette with which he had been toying. It was obvious that he was enjoying
himself. Bindle seized the moment in which to break in upon the duologue. "I
don’t rightly understand all the things wot you been sayin’, you bein’ rather
given to usin’ fancy words; but it reminds me o’ Charlie Dunn." Bindle paused.
He has a strong sense of the dramatic. "J.B.," said Dare, "we demand the story
of Charlie Dunn." ’Well, sir, ’im an’ ’is missus couldn’t ’it it off no ’ow, so
Charlie thought it might make matters better if they took a lodger. ’E thought
it might save ’em jawin’ each other so much. One day Charlie’s missus nips off
wi’ the lodger, and poor ole Charlie goes round a-vowin’ ’is life was ruined,
an’ sayin’ wot ’e’d do to Mr. Lodger when ’e caught ’im. "’But,’ ses I, ’you
ought to be glad, Charlie.’

"’So I am,’ says ’e in a whisper like; ’but if I let on, it wouldn’t be
respectable, see? Come an’ ’ave a drink.’"

"There you are," said Windover, "the poison of appearances has penetrated to the
working-classes. To the blind all things are pure." I reminded Windover that
Colonel Charters said that he would not give one fig for virtue, but he would
cheerfully give £10,000 for a good character. I could see that Bindle had been
waiting to join more actively in the discussion, and my remark gave him his
opportunity. "A character," he remarked oracularly, "depends on ’oos givin’ it.
I s’pose I taken an’ lost more jobs than any other cove in my line, yet I never
’ad a character in my life, good or bad. "Now, if you was to ask ’Earty, ’e’d
say I ain’t got no manners; an’ Mrs. B. ’ud say I ain’t got no morals, an’ why?"
Bindle looked round the room with a grin of challenge on his face. "’Cause I
says wot I thinks to ’Earty, an’ ’e don’t like it, an’ I talks about babies
before young gals, an’ Mrs. Bindle thinks it ain’t decent. "As I ain’t got
neither manners or morals, I ought to be able to judge like between ’em. Now
look at ’Earty, ’e’s as moral as a swan, though ’e ain’t as pretty, an’ why?"
Again Bindle looked round the circle. "’Cause ’e’s afraid!" Having made this
statement Bindle proceeded to light his pipe. This concluded in silence, he
continued:

"’E’s afraid o’ bein’ disgraced in this world and roasted in the next. You
should see the way ’e looks at them young women in the choir. If ’Earty was an
’Un on the loose, well——"  Bindle buried his face in his tankard. "’Is Lordship
’as been sayin’ a lot o’ clever things to-night; but ’e don’t believe a word of
’em." Windover screwed his glass into his eye and gazed at Bindle with interest.
"’E loves to ’ear ’imself talk, same as me." Windover joined the laugh at his
own expense. "’E talks with ’is tongue, not from ’is ’eart, same as ’Earty
forgives. A man ain’t goin’ to feel better ’cause ’e’s always doin’ wot other
people ses ’e ought to do, while ’e wants to do somethink else. If a man’s got a
rotten ’eart, a silver tongue ain’t goin’ to ’elp ’im to get to ’eaven." Bindle
was unusually serious that night, and it was evident that he, at least, was
speaking from his heart. After a pause he continued, "My mate, Bill Peters, got
an allotment to grow vegetables, at least such vegetables as the slugs didn’t
want. Bill turns up in the evenin’s, arter ’is job was done, wi’ spade an’ ’oe
an’ rake. But every time ’e got to work on ’is allotment, a goat came for ’im
from a back yard near by. Bill ain’t a coward, and there used to be a rare ole
fight; but the goat was as wily as a foreman, an’ Bill always got the worst of
it. ’E’d wait till Bill wasn’t lookin’, and then ’e’d charge from be’ind, an’ it
sort o’ got on Bill’s nerves. "At last Bill ’eard that ’is allotment was where
the goat fed, an’, bein’ a sport, ’e said it wasn’t fair to turn Billy out, so
’e give up the allotment and ’is missus ’ll ’ave to buy ’er vegetables same as
before." Bindle paused to let the moral of his tale soak in. "But what has that
to do with morals and manners, J.B.?" asked Dick Little, determined that Bindle
should expound his little allegory. "For Bill read England and for goat read
niggers," said one of Tims’ men. "You got it, sir," said Bindle approvingly. "As
I told ’Earty last week, it ain’t convincin’ when yer starts squirtin’ lead with
a machine-gun a-tellin’ the poor devils wot stops the bullets that there’s a
dove a-comin’. Them niggers get a sort of idea that maybe the dove’s missed the
train." "Talkin’ of goats——" began Angell Herald. "We wasn’t talkin’ o’ goats,"
remarked Bindle quietly, "we was talkin’ o’ Gawd." Whereat Angell Herald at
first looked nonplussed and finally laughed! *CHAPTER VII*

*A SURPRISE BEHIND THE VEIL*

Windover, or to give him his full name, the Hon. Anthony Charles (afterwards
Lord) Windover, apart from possessing a charming personality, has a delightfully
epigrammatic turn of speech. It was he who said that a man begins life with
ideals about his mother; but ends it with convictions about his wife. On that
occasion Bindle had left his seat and, solemnly walking over to Windover, had
shaken him warmly by the hand, returning to his chair again without a word. It
was Windover, too, who had once striven to justify celibacy for men by saying
that a benedict lived in a fool’s paradise; a bachelor in some other fool’s
paradise. Windover’s meeting with Bindle was most dramatic. Immediately on
entering the room with Carruthers, Windover’s eye caught sight of Bindle seated
at his small table, the customary large tankard of ale before him, blowing
clouds of smoke from his short pipe. Windover had stopped dead and, screwing his
glass into the corner of his left eye, a habit of his, gazed fixedly at him who
later became our chairman. We were all feeling a little embarrassed, all save
Bindle, who returned the gaze with a grin of unconcern. It was he who broke the
tension by remarking to Windover. "You don’t ’appen to ’ave a nut about yer, do
you sir?" Windover had laughed and the two shook hands heartily, Windover
perhaps a little ashamed of having shown such obvious surprise. As a rule his
face is a mask. "I’m awfully sorry, I was trying to remember where we had met,"
he said rather lamely. "’Ush, sir, ’ush!" said Bindle looking round him
apprehensively, then in a loud whisper, "It was in Brixton, sir. You was pinched
’alf an ’our after me." From that time Bindle and Windover became the best of
friends. When, on the death of his elder brother, killed in a bombing-raid,
Windover had succeeded to the title, we were all at a loss how to express our
sympathy. He is not a man with whom it is easy to condole. He and his brother
had been almost inseparables, and both had joined the army immediately on the
outbreak of war. On the Sunday following the tragedy, Windover turned up as
usual. He greeted us in his customary manner, and no one liked to say anything
about his loss. Bindle, however, seems to possess a genius for solving difficult
problems. As he shook hands with Windover he said, "I won’t call yer m’lord jest
yet, sir, it’ll only sort o’ remind yer." I saw Bindle wince at the grip
Windover gave him. Later in the evening Windover remarked to Carruthers, "J.B.
always makes me feel exotic," and we knew he was referring to Bindle’s way of
expressing sympathy at his bereavement. Curiously enough, to the end of the
chapter Bindle continued to address Windover as "sir", possibly as a protest
against Angell Herald’s inveterate "my lordliness." Windover’s story was just
Windover and nobody else, and it is printed just as he narrated it, with
injunctions "not to add or omit, lengthen or shorten a single garment." I have
not done so. How long I had been dead I could not conjecture. I remembered
buying a newspaper of the old man who stands at the corner of Piccadilly Place.
I recollected that it was my intention to justify, to the smallest possible
extent compatible with my instinctive sense of delicacy, the letter of patient
optimism that I had received that morning from my tailor. That was all. There
had been no death-bed scene, with its pathos of farewells, no Rogers moaning
piteously about his future, as he invariably did when my health showed the least
deviation from the normal. Yet here was I dead—dead as Free Silver. In a dingy
apartment of four garishly papered walls, upon a straight-backed, black oak
settle, I sat gazing into my top hat. That I was dressed for calling did not
seem to cause me any very great surprise, nor was I conscious of any tremor, or
feeling of diffidence as to my fate. It seemed much as if I were waiting to see
my solicitor upon some unimportant matter of business. I knew that I was there
to be interrogated as to my past life. I was vaguely conscious that awkward
questions would be asked, and that the utmost tact and diplomacy would be
required to answer or evade them. I was speculating as to the probable cause of
my death, weighing the claims of a taxi, the end of the world and a bomb, when
the door opposite to me opened and a tall angular woman appeared. Given a dusty
crape bonnet, she would have passed admirably for a Bayswater caretaker. I was
taken aback: in my mind post-mortem interrogation had always been associated
with the male sex. Marvelling that this unattractive Vestal should be an
attribute to Eternity, I rose and bowed. My imagination had always pictured the
women of the Hereafter as draped in long, white, clinging garments, and
possessed of beautiful fluffy wings and a gaze of ineffable love and wonder. The
thought of the surprise in store for the sentimental ballad-writers induced a
chuckle! With a gesture of her lean hand, the Vestal motioned me from the room.
At the extreme end of a gloomy corridor along which we passed, there appeared a
grained door bearing in letters of white the words:—

MRS. GRUNDY                                 PRIVATE

My interest immediately became stimulated. Here was an entirely unlooked-for
development. "Shall we go in?" I enquired, rather out of a spirit of bravado
than anything else. The Vestal rebuked me with an expressionless stare.
Presently the door opened with a startling suddenness and later closed behind us
of its own accord. The second room seemed strangely familiar. On the mantel-
piece was a large gilt clock in a glass case, flanked on either side by an
enormous pink lustre with its abominable crystal drops. The furniture was either
ponderous or "what-notty", and every possible thing was covered, as if to be
undraped were indelicate. On the chairs were antimacassars, table-cloths hid the
shameless polish of the wood, the pattern of the Brussels carpet was modified in
its flamboyancy by innumerable mats. The walls were a mass of pictures, and in
front of the only window were lace curtains of a tint known technically as
"ecru." There were two collections of impossible wax fruits covered by oval
glasses, a square case of incredibly active-looking stuffed birds, and a
bewildering mass of photographs in frames. Here and there on tables were a few
select volumes, ostentatiously laid open with silk hand-painted bookmarks
threading through their virgin pages. I identified "The Lady of the Lake,"
Smiles, "Self Help," "Holy Living and Holy Dying," the works of Martin Tupper,
and the inevitable family bible. At a large round-table opposite to the door sat
a presence—a woman in form, in clothing, in everything but sex. It was quizzing
Disapproval in black silk, with a gold chain round its neck from which hung a
large cameo locket. Its grey hair, very thin on top, was stowed away in a net
with appalling precision. It had three chins, and grey eyes, behind which lurked
neither soul nor emotion. It was the personification of the triumph of virtue
untempted. I bowed. The eyes regarded me impassively, then turned to the massive
volume before them. It was bound in embossed black leather with gilt edges and a
heavy gilt clasp. I was incredulous that the Sins of Society could be all
contained in one book; but decided that it was made possible by the use of the
word "ditto." Society is never original in anything, least of all its sinning.
In the hope of attracting to myself the attention hitherto considered my due, I
began to fidget. Presently, and without looking up, Mrs. Grundy, as I judged her
to be, demanded in a smooth, colourless voice:—

"Your name?" "Anthony Charles Windover," I responded glibly. "Age?" I coughed
deprecatingly. "Age?" It was as if I heard the uninflected accents of Destiny.
"Is it absolutely necessary?" I queried. "Absolutely!" "Forty-three. Of course
in confidence," I added hastily. "There is no confidence in Eternity." "Then
you, too, are a sceptic?" I ventured. She merely stared at me fixedly, then
proceeded to turn over the leaves of the tome in front of her. Soon she found
what appeared to be the correct page. After fully a minute’s deliberate
contemplation of the entry, she looked up suddenly and regarded me with a solemn
gravity that struck me as grotesque. "Not a very bad case, let’s hope," I put in
cheerfully. "There have been——"

"Silence!" I started as if shot, and looking round discovered beside me the
impassive visage of the ill-favoured Vestal of the ante-room. "I wish you
wouldn’t bawl in my ear like that," I snapped. "It’s most unpleasant." "Anthony
Charles Windover," it was Mrs. Grundy who spoke in a voice that was deep-
throated and disapproving, "age forty-three." She looked up again with her cold
and malevolent stare; "yours is a grave record; we will deal with it in detail."
"Surely, Madam," I protested, "it is not necessary to go over everything. I am
so hopeless at accounts." "First there was the case of Cecily Somers," she
proceeded unmoved. "A mere boy and girl affair. Cecily was young, and—well, it
didn’t last long." "Then there was the case of Laura Merton," continued the
arch-inquisitor. "Poor Laura," I murmured. "I never could resist red hair, and
hers was——poor Laura!" "There were circumstances of a very grave nature." "You
mean the curate? He was a bloodless creature; besides it all ended happily."
"You intervened between an affianced man and wife," continued Mrs. Grundy. "I am
very sorry to appear rude, Madam," I protested hotly, irritated by the even,
colourless tones of her voice, "but it was Laura’s hair that intervened! Am I to
blame because she preferred the ripeness of my maturity to the callowness of his
inexperience?" "You caused her mother—an estimable lady—indescribable anguish of
soul." "She hadn’t one," I replied, triumphantly, "She was a scheming old——"

"Silence!" fulminated the Vestal again. "Really, madam," I protested with
asperity, "unless you request this person not to shout in my ear, I shall refuse
to remain here another minute." "There was Rosie de Lisle——"

"Ah, what ankles! what legs! what——"  I was interrupted by a gurgle from the
Vestal in whose eyes there was something more than horror. I turned and found
Mrs. Grundy obviously striving to regain the power of speech. Conscious that my
ecstasy upon Rosie’s legs had caused the trouble, I hastened to explain that I
had seen them in common with the rest of the play-going world. "Rosie was the
belle of the Frivolity," I proceeded, "Bishops have been known to hasten
ordinations, or delay confirmations because of Rosie’s legs. She danced
divinely!" Rosie’s legs seemed to have a remarkable effect upon Mrs. Grundy. She
hurriedly turned over the pages of her book and then turned them back again.
"There was Evelyn Relton——"

"A minx, madam, to adopt the idiom of your sex, whilst my kisses were still warm
upon her lips——"  Another gurgle from the Vestal and a "look" from Mrs.
Grundy,—"she married a wealthy brewer, and is now the mother of eight embryo
brewers, or is it nine?" "You—you are aggravating your case, stammered Mrs.
Grundy, with some asperity. "I am very sorry, but your attitude annoys me; it
always did. I’m a social free-trader, a bohemian——"

"STOP!" thundered Mrs. Grundy. "That word is never permitted here." "I think
you’re extremely suburban," I replied. "You might be Tooting, or even Brixton
from your attitude." Ignoring this, Mrs. Grundy proceeded to read the names of a
number of women who had long ceased to be to me anything but names. I could not
even remember if they were dark or fair, tall or short. At last she reached Mary
Vincent, relict of Josiah Vincent, pork-packer of Chicago. "Why, she was a most
shameless person," I cried. "I am surprised, madam, that you should support such
a woman. She actually proposed to me." "Ahem!" coughed Mrs. Grundy, apparently
somewhat taken aback. "A fact! She asked me if I did not think a middle-aged
man—she was always impertinent—would have a better chance of happiness with a
woman of ripe experience, a widow for instance, than with some mere
inexperienced girl. Really a most offensive suggestion." "It’s very curious,"
muttered Mrs. Grundy, as she turned over the leaves in obvious embarrassment.
"It’s very curious, but I see no record here of any such conversation." "Ha! I
thought your books were defective," I exclaimed, now feeling thoroughly at my
ease. "Why, I have letters, shameless letters, from Mrs. Vincent, which would
make your hair stand on end." I did not appreciate until too late how thin and
sparse her hair really was. "We will proceed," was her response. I was secretly
glad that she had dropped that even tone of inevitability and remembered Tully’s
axiom "make a woman angry and she is half won over." "There was the case of Sir
John Plumtree, 26th baronet. You committed a most brutal assault upon that most
distinguished man." "Plumtree was a bounder, more at home in his own country
house than among gentlemen. I certainly did punch his head in the club smoking-
room; but do you know why, madam?" "There is no mention of the cause," said Mrs.
Grundy, a little ill at ease. "We were discussing a very charming member of your
sex"—(Mrs. Grundy started and coughed, the word "sex" evidently distressed
her)—"when Plum, as we called him, growled out that all women were—I really
cannot repeat it, but he quoted a saying of a well-known Eastern potentate whose
matrimonial affairs were somewhat—"

"We will pass on," said Mrs. Grundy, huskily. I thought I detected a slight
reddening of the sallow cheeks, whilst the Vestal coughed loudly. "I should
really prefer not to pass over this little affair so lightly," I remarked
sweetly, seeing my advantage. "There were several circumstances which—"

"We will pass on," was the firm reply, "I will not proceed with that specific
charge." The smile with which I greeted this concession did not conduce to put
my interlocutor at her ease. "There are certain unconventions recorded against
you. We will take a few of the most glaring." "Why this reticence? Can we not
take them all and in chronological order?" I enquired, settling myself in the
most comfortless of chairs. Disregarding my request, Mrs. Grundy proceeded:

"On the night of June 7th, 1914, you dined with Mrs. Walker Trevor at ——," she
paused and bent over the register. "This is very strange," she muttered, _sotto
voce_. "I don’t quite see the reason of this entry. There seems to have been a
mistake." "Can I assist you?" I ventured, becoming interested. She paid no heed
to my offer, and after a few minutes’ silence proceeded in the same half-
muttering voice. "Dined with Mrs. Walker Trevor, wife of Captain Walker Trevor,
absent on military duty, at Princes, P.R. It does not say what prince, but rank
is——" She paused, then continued: "There is no breach of the conventions in
dining at a prince’s, even with a married lady whose husband is away. I cannot
understand the meaning of P.R. either. It is very strange, very strange indeed."
Here I broke in. "Permit me, madam, to explain. I think you are labouring under
a mistake. Princes is a famous Piccadilly Restaurant, which has lost some of its
one-time glory through the opening of the Carlton and the Ritz. ’P.R.’ of course
means Private Room. It was Millicent’s idea." At this juncture there was a loud
knocking, evidently at the end of the corridor, followed by expostulations in an
angry voice and interjections of "Silence!" in what appeared to be a replica of
the Vestal’s tones. Mrs. Grundy looked up, scandalised enquiry imprinted on her
visage. "I’m goin’ in, I tell you," the angry voice was now just outside. "Get
out of the way, you old Jezebel! Silence? I’m damned if I’ll be silent. Why I’ve
sneezed three times already. Draughty hole! Get out of the way I say." The door
burst open and there entered a little man in a very great passion. I recognised
him instantly as the Duke of Shires, a notorious viveur and director of wild-cat
companies. I leant forward and whispered to Mrs. Grundy the name of her
illustrious visitor. "This is an unexpected pleasure, Duke," I remarked
smilingly. He regarded me for a few minutes coldly. "Who the devil are you, and
who’s that old —— sitting there? "—indicating Mrs. Grundy. Then without waiting
for a reply, he continued: "I know you now: you’re the feller that said that
dashed impertinent thing about my being the Duke of Shares." "I had the honour,
Duke, of immortalising Your Grace in epigram. Wherever the English language
is——"

"Then be damned to you, sir," was the angry response. "We were not expecting
Your Grace yet," interposed Mrs. Grundy; I was astonished at the unctuous tones
she adopted in speaking to the Duke. "No, nor I, confound it! I’ve just been
knocked down by a taxicab, light green, driver had red hair, couldn’t see his
number." "I am extremely sorry," croaked Mrs. Grundy in what she evidently
intended to be ingratiating tones. "Will not Your Grace take a seat." "No, I
won’t!" the Duke tossed his head indignantly. "Draughty hole—damn it, sir, what
are you grinning at?" The remark was directed at me. The little man made a dive
in my direction, and in stepping back to avoid him I knocked my head violently
against what appeared to be the mantel-piece, although I had been sitting
several yards from it. *      *      *      *      *

"What is it?" I looked about dazed. Two policemen were bending over me, and
behind them was a sea of interested faces that looked very pale, I was out of
doors, apparently sitting on the pavement, with my head propped up upon a
policeman’s knee. "It was a banana skin, sir," responded one of the policemen,
holding up something before my eyes—(how the police love an "exhibit")—"you ’urt
your ’ead, sir, but you’re all right now." "And Mrs. Grundy and the Duke?" I
queried. "’Ere’s the stretcher!" said a voice. "It’s a bad business, I’m afraid
’e’ll——"

Then my mind trailed off into darkness and my body was trundled off to St.
George’s Hospital, from which the almost tearful Rogers later fetched me in a
taxi, bemoaning the narrowness, not of my escape from death, but his own from
destitution. "I wonder wot ’Earty ’ud think o’ that little yarn," Bindle
remarked meditatively as he tapped the table before him with his mallet in token
of applause. As chairman Bindle modelled himself upon him who lords it over the
public-house "smoker." "’E wouldn’t like to ’ave to give up ’is ’arp with angels
flapping about." "But it’s only a—a—sort of dream, like mine," interjected
Angell Herald, with a touch of superior knowledge in his voice. Bindle turned
and regarded Angell Herald as if he were an object of great interest. Then when
he had apparently satisfied himself in every particular about his identity, he
remarked quietly with a grin:

"O’ course it was. Silly o’ me to forget. Poor ole ’Earty. I wouldn’t ’ave ’im
disappointed. ’E’s nuts on ’arps." *CHAPTER VIII*

*THE MAKING OF A MAN OF GENIUS*

It was rather by way of an experiment that I determined to try the effect of
irony upon the members of the Night Club. I confess I was curious as to how it
would strike Bindle, remembering that remarkable definition of irony as "life
reduced to an essence." The story had been told me by Old Archie, if he had
another name none of us had ever heard it, who keeps a coffee-stall not far from
Sloane Square. He was a rosy-faced little fellow, as nippy as a cat in spite of
his seventy years, and as cheerful as a sparrow. He has seen life from many
angles, and there has come to him during those three score years and ten a
philosophy that seems based on the milk of human kindness. Had he been gifted
with a ready pen, he could have written a book that would have been valuable as
well as interesting. "A man shows ’is ’eart an’ a woman ’er soul round a coffee-
stall," was one of his phrases that has clung to my memory. "Lord bless you,
sir," he said on another occasion, "there’s good an’ bad in everyone. Even in a
rotten apple the pips is all right." I chose a night for Old Archie’s story when
I knew there would be a full attendance, and without anything in the nature of
an introduction began the tale as he had told it to me. In arriving at a
determination to marry, Robert Tidmarsh, as in all things, had been deliberate.
It was an act, he told himself, that he owed to the success he had achieved.
From the time when he lived with his parents in a depressing tenement house in
Boulger Street, Barnsbury, Robert Tidmarsh had been preoccupied with his career.
It had become the great fetish of his imagination. In childhood it had brought
down upon him scorn and ridicule. Studious habits were not popular in Boulger
Street; but Robert remained resolute in his pursuit of success. He saw that in
time the star of his destiny would take him far from Boulger Street—it had. At
the age of thirty-eight he was head clerk to Messrs. Middleton, Ratchett &
Dolby, Solicitors, of 83 Austin Friars, E.C., wore a silk hat and frock-coat,
lived at Streatham, drew a salary of two hundred and thirty pounds a year and
had quite a considerable sum in the bank. Boulger Street had been left far
behind. In its way Boulger Street was proud of him; it had seen him mount the
ladder step by step. It had made him, nourished him, neglected him, ridiculed
him, and later, with the servility of a success-loving plebeian, it respected
and worshipped him. He remained its standard by which to measure failure. The
one thing it did not do was to imitate him. Robert saw that, economically, the
way was clear before him. His career demanded the sacrifice; for somehow he
could never quite rid his mind of the idea that marriage _was_ a sacrifice. Such
considerations belonged, however, to a much earlier stage of his reasoning.
Whatever he had to resign was laid upon the altar of ambition. If destiny
demanded sacrifice, he would tender it without hesitation, without complaint. As
he had climbed the ladder of success, Robert found to his surprise that his
horizon was enlarging; but he was not deceived into the belief that it would
continue to expand to infinity. Being something of a philosopher, he knew that
there must be limitations. In a vague, indeterminate way he was conscious that
he lacked some quality necessary to his continued progression. He could not have
put it into words; but he was conscious that there was something holding him
back. Could he at twenty-one have started where he was at thirty-eight, there
might have been a prospect of achieving greatness for the house of Tidmarsh.
This he now knew to be impossible, and he wasted no time in vain regrets. His
reason told him that, but for some curious shuffling of the cards, he was
unlikely to rise much higher. "But should twenty-six years of work and sacrifice
be allowed to pass for nothing?" He could not himself climb much higher, but if
a son of his were to start from the social and intellectual rung whereon he now
stood, there would be a saving of twenty-six years. Then again, his son would
have the advantage of his father’s culture, position, experience. Slowly the
truth dawned upon him; he was destined to play Philip to his son’s Alexander.
From the moment that Robert Tidmarsh reached this conclusion marriage became
inevitable. For weeks he pondered on the new prospect he saw opening out before
him. He was pleased with its novelty. The weakness of the reasoning that a son
starts from where his father stands did not appear to strike him. With a new
interest and energy he walked through miles of streets adorned with the latest
architectural achievements in red brick and stucco. It was characteristic of him
that he had fixed upon the avenue that was to receive him, long before his mind
turned to the serious problem of finding a suitable partner in his enterprise.
Robert Tidmarsh’s views upon women were nebulous. Hitherto girls had been
permitted to play no part in his life. He had studiously avoided them. A young
man, he had told himself, could not very well nurture a career and nourish a
wife at the same time. He was not a woman-hater; he was merely indifferent; the
hour had not struck. For weeks he deliberated upon the kind of wife most likely
to further his ends. His first thought had been of a woman of culture, a few
years younger than himself. But would the cultures war with one another? The
risk was great, too great. He accordingly decided that youth and health were to
be the sole requisites in the future Mrs. Tidmarsh. At this period Robert began
to speculate upon his powers of attraction. He would seek to catch a glimpse of
himself in the mirrors he passed in the street. He saw a rather sedate, dark-
haired man of medium height, with nondescript features and a small black
moustache. In a vague way he knew that he was colourless: he lacked half-tones,
atmosphere. He studied other men, strove to catch their idiom and inflection, to
imitate their bearing and the angle at which they wore their hats. He began to
look at women, mentally selecting and rejecting. One night he spoke to a girl in
Hyde Park, but he found conversation so difficult that, with a muttered apology
about catching a train and a lifting of his hat, he fled. As he hurried away he
heard the girl’s opinion of him compressed into one word as she turned on her
heel, midst a swirl of petticoats, to seek more congenial company. That night he
found his philosophy a poor defence against his sensitiveness. Robert Tidmarsh
would have turned away in horror from the suggestion that he depended upon a
casual meeting with some girl in Hyde Park to furnish him with a wife. This was
intended to be merely an adventure preliminary to the real business of
selection. He did not know what to talk about to women, and the knowledge
troubled him. When the time came he found, as other men have found, an excellent
subject ready to hand—himself. Robert may be said to have entered seriously upon
his quest when he joined a dancing-class, a tennis-club and learned to manage a
punt. He afterwards saw that any one of these recreations would have supplied
him with all the material he could possibly require. Eventually his choice fell
upon Eva Thompson, the daughter of a Tulse Hill chemist. She was pretty, bright,
and to all appearance, strong and healthy. He was introduced to the parents, who
were much impressed with their potential son-in-law. Mrs. Thompson was subjected
to a dexterous cross-examination, the subtlety of which in no way deceived that
astute lady. Accordingly the result was satisfactory to both parties. Eva
herself at twenty-two had all the instincts of a February sparrow. To mate well
she had been taught was the end and aim of a girl’s life, a successful marriage,
that is from the worldly point of view, its crown of wild olive. To Robert,
however, marriage was the first step towards founding a family. Risks there
were, he saw this clearly, but where human forethought could remove them they
should be removed. One of the secrets of Robert’s success had been a singleness
of purpose that had enabled him to pursue his own way in spite of opposing
factors. He was always quietly resolute. It was not so much by his perseverance
that he achieved his ends, as by the care which he bestowed upon each detail of
his schemes. As in his career, so with his marriage, in itself a part of the
scheme of his life. Too astute to be convinced by a mother’s prejudiced
evidence, or by his own unskilled judgment, he determined to have expert opinion
as to Eva’s fitness to become the mother of an Alexander. A slight chill the
girl had contracted gave him his opportunity. During an evening walk, he took
her to his own doctor, who had previously received instructions. Such a thing
did not appear to him as callous; he was not marrying for romance, but for a
definite and calculated purpose. To some men marriage is a romance, to others a
haven of refuge from rapacious landladies; but to Robert Tidmarsh it was
something between a hobby and a career. He asked but one thing from the bargain,
and received far more than he would have thought any man justified in expecting.
From the hour that he signed the register in the vestry, the training of his son
commenced. Among other things, Robert’s reading had taught him that a child’s
education does not necessarily begin with its birth. Accordingly he set himself
to render his bride happy. There was a deep strain of wisdom in this man’s mind,
which no amount of undigested philosophical reading could quite blot out. He saw
the necessity of moulding his wife’s unformed character; and he decided that
first he must render her happy. He took her to the theatre, with supper at a
cheap restaurant afterwards, followed by the inevitable scurry to catch the last
train. Occasionally there were week-ends in the country, or by the sea. In short
the model son of one suburb became the model husband of another. Months passed
and Robert’s anxiety increased. As the critical period approached he became a
prey to neurasthenia. He lost his appetite, started at every sound, was
incoherent in his speech, and slept so ill as to be almost unfit for the day’s
work. There is one night that Robert Tidmarsh will never forget. For two hours
he paced Schubert Avenue from end to end, his mind fixed on what was happening
in the front bedroom of Eureka Lodge. The biting East wind he did not feel. He
was above atmospheric temperatures. His life’s work, he felt, was about to be
crowned or——he would not permit himself to give even a moment’s thought to the
alternative. The suspense was maddening. As he paced the Avenue he strove to
think coherently. He strove to compare his own childhood with that which should
be the lot of his son. Coherent thought he found impossible. Everything in his
mind was chaotic. Had he really any mind at all? Would he lose his reason
entirely? Then he fell to wondering what they would do with him if he went mad?
He had got to this point, and had just turned round, when he saw that the front
door of Eureka Lodge was open and a woman’s figure standing out against the
light. With a thumping heart, Robert ran the fifty yards that separated him from
the silhouetted figure as he had not run since boyhood. What could it mean—a
mishap? As he stopped at the gate, his trembling fingers fumbling with the
latch, he heard a voice that seemed to come from no-where telling him that his
ambition had been realised. For the first time in his manhood he felt the tears
streaming down his face as he clutched at the gate-post sobbing. Fortunately the
woman had fled back to her post, and he was spared what to him would have
appeared an intolerable humiliation. During the days immediately following that
night of torture, Robert felt that his life was to be crowned indeed. Hitherto
the great moment of his career had been when he was called into Mr. Middleton’s
room, and, in the presence of the other partners, told that he was to be
promoted to the position of chief clerk. Now a greater had arrived, and from
that hour, when a son was born to the ambitious and self-made solicitor’s clerk,
his life became one series of great moments. Robert Tidmarsh early found the
rearing of a man child productive of grave anxieties. The slightest deviation
from what he considered to be the normal condition of infants produced in him a
frenzy of alarm. His forethought had provided books upon the rearing of infants.
He consulted them and his fears increased. Convulsions held for him a subtle and
petrifying horror. A more than usually robust exhibition of crying on the part
of Hector Roland (as the child was christened) invariably produced in his
father’s mind dismal forebodings. In time, however, he became more controlled,
and the arrival of the customary period of measles, whooping-cough, scarlet-
fever and other childish ailments found him composed if anxious. But nervous
solicitude for the boy’s health did not in the least interfere with the father’s
dominant preoccupation. The question of education was never wholly absent from
his thoughts. With so pronounced a tendency to narrowness, it was strange to
find with what wisdom and foresight he entered upon his task. As if by instinct
he saw that influence alone could achieve his object. He would form no plan, he
would guide, not direct his son’s genius. Above all he would not commit the
supreme indiscretion of taking anyone into his confidence. Sometimes he was
tempted to tell Eva of his ambition, he yearned for sympathy in his great
undertaking, but he always triumphed over this weakness. Eva was a little
puzzled at his solicitude about her health, and the frequent cross-questionings
to which she was subjected as to what she ate and drank; but woman-like she saw
in this only evidence of his devotion. He talked often of children whose lives
had been imperilled by injudicious indulgence on the part of their mothers. When
the time came for the child to be fed by hand, Robert made the most careful
enquiries of the doctor and his father-in-law as to the best and most nutritious
infant foods. The result of all this was that the child showed every tendency to
become a fine healthy young animal. But in the care of the body, Robert Tidmarsh
by no means neglected the budding mind of his infant son. When the period of
toys and picture-books arrived, the same careful discrimination was shown. The
old fairy stories, with well-printed illustrations, diverted the young Hector’s
mind just as the best foods nourished his body. When he tired of literature
there were cheap mechanical toys, bought in the hope of stimulating the germ of
enquiry as it should manifest itself. People shook their heads and thought such
extravagance unwarranted; but Robert smiled. They did not share his secret. As
the years passed and Hector grew up into a sturdy youngster, his father watched
furtively for some sign as to the direction that his genius was to take; but
Hector, as if desirous of preserving to himself the precious knowledge, refused
to evidence any particular tendency beyond a healthy appetite, a robust frame
and a general enjoyment of life. With the selection of Hector’s first school, an
affair productive of acute anxiety and many misgivings, commenced the education
proper of the man-to-be. The first official report, so eagerly awaited, was
noncommittal; the second proved little better, and the third seemed to indicate
that Hector was by no means an assiduous student. If the boy evinced no marked
tendency towards the acquirement of book-learning, he showed an unmistakable
liking for out-door sports and stories of adventure. He was encouraged to read
the works of "healthy" writers such as Kingston and Ballantyne, strongly
recommended by the book-seller who had charge of Robert Tidmarsh’s literary
conscience. In the winter evenings the boy would pore over the thrilling
adventures of the heroes with an attention that did not fail to arouse his
father’s hopes. The first tragedy between this Philip and Alexander was the
discovery, in the pocket of the younger, of a copy of _The Firebrand of the
Pacific; or The Pirate’s Oath_, a highly-coloured account of doings of a
particularly sanguinary cut-throat. On this occasion Robert Tidmarsh showed
something almost akin to genius. He took the book and deliberately read it from
cover to cover, subsequently returning it without comment to his nervously-
expectant son. The next evening he brought home a copy of _The Treasure Island_,
recommended by the bookseller as the finest boy’s book ever written, and without
a word gave it to Hector. After dinner, the Tidmarshes always "dined," Hector
dutifully commenced to read. At nine o’clock his mother’s reminder that it was
bed-time was received with a pleading look and an appeal for another five
minutes, to which Robert signified assent. At ten o’clock Hector reluctantly
said good-night and went to bed. At five the next morning he was again with John
Silver. By six o’clock in the afternoon the book was finished and Hector was at
the station to meet his father. As they walked home Robert felt a crumpled paper
thrust into his hand. It was _The Firebrand of the Pacific_. Robert has never
been able to determine if this was not after all _the_ moment of his life. At
the age of ten Hector was placed at a school of some repute in the South West of
London, and three months later at the Annual Sports won the Junior Hundred Yards
and Junior Quarter of a Mile scratch. Robert was pleased when he heard of the
achievement, but he was no Greek, and the winning of the parsley wreath was not
what he had in mind for his son; still it was gratifying to see the boy outshine
his fellows. Hector showed an ever-increasing love of outdoor sports. Cricket,
football, running, jumping—nothing came amiss to him. His father watched in vain
for some glimmerings of the genius that his imagination told him would develop
sooner or later. His hope had been that, by means of scholarships, his son might
reach Oxford or Cambridge, for he had all the middle-class exaggerated opinion
of the advantages of a University education. He saw him a senior wrangler, he
saw his photograph in the papers, heard himself interviewed as to his son’s
early life and pursuits. From these dreams he would awaken to renewed exertions;
but always with the same lack of success. Unfortunately perhaps for both, Robert
Tidmarsh saw little in his son’s successes. Athletics were with him incidents in
a career, incapable of being glorified into achievements. To him a judge was not
a judge because he had won his blue, but rather in spite of it. He could not
very well expostulate. No man, as Robert clearly saw, has a right to rebuke a
son for failing to realise his father’s ambitions for him. For one thing, he had
no very clear idea himself what those ambitions were. All he was conscious of
was a feeling that in some way or other Hector Tidmarsh was to carry on the
torch that he, Robert Tidmarsh, had lighted. He was to achieve fame in some
channel of life; but it must be a material fame, one that would make him a
celebrity. It never occurred to Tidmarsh _père_ that a man capable of making a
century at cricket, or being the best centre-forward in the district, could be
worthy of a place among a nation’s contemporary worthies. At sixteen Hector left
school, regretted by masters and scholars alike, for his was a nature that
commanded liking. By the influence of Mr. Ratchett, who had always been
particularly partial to his chief clerk and, as an old Oxford cricket blue, was
much interested in his clerk’s son, Hector was articled to a solicitor. In a
flash Robert Tidmarsh saw the possibility of his cherished dream being realised.
He recalled instances of young men who had achieved fame in the field and
subsequently become successful in the more serious walks of life. He watched the
boy closely, talked to him of law, encouraged him to study, pointed out the
greatness of this golden opportunity. But in vain, the boy’s heart was in sport,
not in law. Sometimes in introspective moments the father examined himself as to
how he had filled the role of Philip. Had he failed? Was he the cause? Could he
have prevented what now appeared highly probable, the fluttering to earth of his
house of cards? He had never been harsh, had he erred by being over lenient? As
he watched Hector, it slowly dawned upon him that for the first time in his life
he was about to experience failure. His son was doomed to be lost in the flood
of the commonplace, would be respectable, comfortably off, live at Streatham or
Balham; but could never become famous. When this conviction became fixed in
Robert Tidmarsh’s mind, he grew gloomy and depressed. The dice had gone against
him. It was fate. It is only a long line of ancestors that enables a man to play
a losing game. The Tidmarsh blood lacked that tenacity and fire that comes with
tradition. It remained only to wait and hope and speculate from what quarter the
blow would fall. At nineteen Hector received an invitation to play for the
Surrey Colts. He "came off," making a dashing fifty. Mr. Rachett was there to
shake the young giant warmly by the hand as he returned to the pavilion, but not
his chief clerk. In the heart of the disappointed father there was a dull
resentment against sport in general. He saw in it a siren who had bewitched his
son, and diverted him from the path he should have trod. His secret was hard to
keep. He needed sympathy, someone to tell him that he had done a great deal if
not so much as he had anticipated. One October morning the moment of final dis-
illusionment arrived. When he came down to breakfast Hector was waiting in the
dining-room with a copy of _The Sportsman_, which he handed to his father, at
the same time pointing to a long description of a football match between two
well-known league clubs; it was headed "A Man of Genius," and ran:

"The outstanding feature of the game was the marvellous display     of the young
amateur, Mr. Hector Tidmarsh, who was given a trial     at centre forward in the
home team. His pace, his subtlety, his     bustling methods stamped him as a
great centre-forward. The way     he kept his wings together was a revelation.
Time after time     the quintette raced away as if opposition did not exist. The
young amateur seemed to have hypnotised his professional     _confrères_. His
shooting was equal to his feinting, and his     forward-passing such as has not
been seen for many a day. In     short he is the greatest find of the season, or
of many seasons     for that matter. The directors of the —— Club are to be
congratulated in having discovered a man of genius." Robert Tidmarsh put down
the paper and looked at his son; but happily bereft at the Comic Spirit, he
merely articulated some commonplace words of congratulation. That morning two
disappointed men commenced their breakfasts, the father realising that his
cherished ideal had finally been shattered; the son depressed because a
carefully planned surprise had been productive of only a few colourless words,
and upon them both smiled a proud wife and happy mother, to whom fame for those
she loved, be it in what form it may, was a great and glorious gift to be
welcomed with laughter and with tears. I lay aside the manuscript and proceeded
to light a cigarette. As a rule at the end of a reading there is a babel of
comment. To-night there was an unusual silence. I looked round the room. There
was a far-away look in Sallie’s eyes, which seemed unusually bright. Dick Little
was gazing straight in front of him, Bindle was recharging his pipe with great
deliberation and care. The Boy was lost in the contemplation of his finger
nails. "Silly ass!" It was Angell Herald who had broken the silence, and snapped
the thread. All eyes turned in his direction. Bindle, who was just in the act of
lighting his pipe, paused and gazed curiously at Angell Herald over the flame of
the match, then he turned to me and I saw that he understood. It was Windover,
however, who expressed the opinion of the Club upon Angell Herald’s comment,
when he muttered loud enough for all to hear:

"Oh! for the jawbone of an ass!" *CHAPTER IX*

*MRS. BILTOX-JONES’S EXPERIMENT*

I do not think any of us really liked Angell Herald, his self-satisfied
philistinism constituting a serious barrier to close personal relations. I have
already commented upon certain of his characteristics that jarred upon us all;
but it seemed no one’s business to indicate, delicately or otherwise, that he
was not so welcome as we might have wished. Dick Little had introduced him on
the strength of a story he had heard him tell at some masonic dinner, I think it
was, and he had decided that Angell Herald would be an acquisition to the Night
Club. Sallie thought otherwise, and had summed him up as "a worm in a top hat":
he always wore a top hat. It was the only occasion on which I had known Sallie
break out into epigram. Both she and Bindle disliked Angell Herald almost to the
point of intolerance. As a matter of fact he is not a bad fellow, if his foibles
are not too much emphasized. His principal asset, however, is that he has a fund
of interesting experiences which, strangely enough, he rates far lower than the
stories he at first would insist on telling. He assured us that Mrs. Biltox-
Jones was no imaginary person and we, knowing his limitations, believed him, and
that her social experiment was at the time the talk of Fleet Street. *I*

"Damn the war!" exclaimed Angell Herald, leaning back in his chair and looking
at his clerk, who had just entered. "Yes sir," said Pearl, in a non-committal
manner. There are moments when Pearl rises almost to inspiration. His
sympathetic utterance was balm to his employer’s anguished soul. Pearl accepts
his chief’s moods or reflects them, whichever seems the more expedient at the
moment. Incidentally Pearl has a heart that filled the War Office with
foreboding; so Pearl will never become a V.C. When Angell Herald uttered his
impulsive remark, with which Pearl had so tactfully concurred, he had just
finished reading a letter from Messrs. Simoon, Golbrith and Cathpell, Ltd. It
consisted of three lines; but those three lines had brushed away a hundred a
year from his income. This is what they wrote:—

"To Angell Herald, Esq.,        Publicity Agent,               382, Fleet
Street, E.C. DEAR SIR,

We regret to inform you that on account of the war we shall not be able to renew
our advertising contract for the current year. We are,    Yours faithfully,
(Signed) SIMOON, GOLBRITH & CATHPELL, LTD. There was not a word of sympathy with
the unfortunate publicity agent for his loss, no touch of humanity or pity,
merely a bare announcement, and Angell Herald felt he was justified in saying,
as he did say with a great deal of emphasis, "Damn the war!" He fell to brooding
over this letter. Publicity agents had been very badly hit by the war, and he
foresaw the time when—well, anything might happen. He was awakened from his
gloom by Pearl. "I’ve got a friend, sir——"

"I know you have, Pearl," was the response. "You have too many friends. That’s
the infernal part of it. You are always marrying or burying them." "I have a
friend," continued Pearl, imperturbably, "who says that new conditions demand
new methods." Angell Herald sat up straight, and looked at Pearl. Knowing him as
his employer did, this was a most extraordinary utterance. There was in it just
a spark of originality. "Pearl," said Angell Herald, "you’ve been drinking."
"No, sir," he replied, seriously, "I never take any alcoholic stimulant until
after dinner." "Then you have a funeral in mind," was the reply. "Something has
intoxicated you." Pearl seemed to deliberate for a moment and then replied,

"Well, sir, I was going to tell you that my aunt’s second husband has had a
stroke, and he is not expected to live. We are planning the funeral for Thursday
week." Angell Herald felt that the loss of the Simoon contract had, as far as
business was concerned, done him for the day, so he went out, bought a rose, and
got his hat ironed. He then turned into "The Turkey Trot" and played a game of
dominoes with his friend Harry Trumpet, who represents the old school of
publicity men: he calls himself an advertising agent. He is a dull and
stereotyped fellow, and, when Angell Herald feels at all depressed, it always
puts him in countenance with himself to come in contact with Harry Trumpet.
"Harry is an ass," Angell Herald had once said; "but the amusing thing is that
he doesn’t know it. I once met his wife and his wife’s sister, and they don’t
seem to know it either." Having evaded Trumpet’s very obvious readiness to be
invited to lunch, Angell Herald went to his favourite place and did himself as
well as he could. He was just drinking the last drop of claret, when Pearl’s
remark came back to him. He remembered the old French saying "autre temps, autre
moeurs." It was the only piece of French that he could recollect, save the words
"cocotte" and "très femme." His mind wandered back to that "interview" with Mr.
Llewellyn John, who had given him such infinite instruction in the art of
advertising. It was, however, the agony column of _The Age_ that gave him his
inspiration. There he saw an advertisement, which read:—

"A lady of considerable wealth desires introduction into Society. A stranger to
London. Apply in the first instance in strict confidence to X.Q. Box 38432. The
office of _The Age_, Paper Buildings Quadrangle, E.C." "A munition fortune,"
Angell Herald muttered to himself. "She has made her money, the old dear, and
now she wants to get into high society, and wash away the taste of Guinness in
the flavour of Moet and Chandon. In other words, she wants publicity." The word
"publicity" suggested himself. Here was a woman desirous of publicity, here was
Angell Herald wanting nothing better than to get for people publicity. He
returned to his office. "Pearl," he said, "you can have that half holiday on
Thursday week. I think you have given me an idea." "Thank you, sir," was his
reply, and Pearl proceeded to ask for a rise, which was instantly refused, his
chief telling him that time was money. Angell Herald wrote a guarded letter to
the lady desiring entry into high society, telling her that he thought he might
possibly be of some assistance if she would kindly allow him the privilege of
calling upon her. He received an equally guarded reply, making an appointment at
the office of a certain firm of solicitors in Lincoln’s Inn. *II*

Three days later Angell Herald was sitting in a room in the offices of Messrs.
Robbe & Dammitt, the well-known society solicitors, awaiting the arrival of his
fair client—as he hoped. He was meditating upon the old-fashioned methods of
solicitors as he gazed round the room with its dusty volumes of law books, its
hard, uncompromising chairs, and its long, stamped-leather covered office table,
when the door opened, and there sailed in—sailed is really the only expression
that conveys the motion—a heavily veiled female figure. As he rose and bowed he
recalled Dick Grassetts’ description of his mother-in-law, "All front and no
figure served up in black silk." "Mr. Herald?" she interrogated in a husky
voice, flopping down into a chair with a gasp. Angell Herald bowed. For fully a
minute she sat panting. Evidently the short flight of stairs had been too much
for her. "You saw my advertisement?" she queried. Again Angell Herald bowed.
"Well, what about it?" she enquired. Her attitude was one of extreme arrogance,
which was oddly out of keeping with the inflection of her voice and the
directness of her speech. Obviously she was determined to assume the attitude of
the theatrical duchess. It was necessary to put her in her place. "I saw your
advertisement," Angell Herald remarked, "and remembering what Mr. Llewellyn John
said to me the other day——"

"Mr. Llewellyn John," she gasped. "You know him?" "Oh, yes," Angell Herald
replied, airily. "As I was saying, he remarked to me the other day, ’Without
advertisement a man is doomed.’  That gave me the idea of writing to you." "Yes,
go on," she said eagerly, as she raised her veil. "Well, madam," Angell Herald
continued, "you require certain social opportunities," she nodded her head
vigorously and gasped like a fat pug that sees tempting dainties it is too full
to eat, "and I think I may be able to be of some assistance." Angell Herald did
not like the woman. Her complexion was blue, her face puffy, and she had
innumerable chins, which billowed down to meet the black silk of her gown. She
was hung with jewellery, and her clothes were most unsuitable to her years. In
her hat was mauve and emerald green. She was literally laden with sables, which
must have considerably increased her difficulty in breathing, and her feet were
pinched into the most ridiculously small patent hoots with enormous tassels that
bobbed about every time she moved. Although a man of the world, Angell Herald
was appalled at the shortness of her skirts. She blinked at him through her
lorgnettes. "Well!" she said. "May I enquire first of all," he enquired, "what
methods you have hitherto adopted? I may tell you that everything discussed
between us is in strict confidence." This seemed to reassure her. After a slight
hesitation she began to tell her story. It appeared that her husband had made an
enormous fortune in the early days of the war by contracting for porous huts and
brown-paper boots for the Army. They had lived in Manchester, but now they had
come to London and taken what was literally a mansion in Park Lane. She had set
herself to work to get into Society, and apparently had been very badly snubbed.
She had subscribed liberally to the Red Cross and similar charities, and
attended every charitable entertainment that had been given since her advent.
She had engaged, regardless of cost, a number of the most famous artists in the
country for a drawing-room concert in aid of a certain hospital, and had sent
out invitations lavishly to the whole of Mayfair. The result was that the
artists had turned up; but not the audience. She had to pay the fees and eat the
leek. Then she had offered to drive convalescent soldiers round the Park. "And
they sent me common soldiers," she remarked, "although I particularly asked for
officers, generals if possible." There was a note of querulous complaint in her
voice. It was with something akin to horror that Angell Herald heard her say she
had written to _The Age_, asking what their terms would be to publish a
photograph of her daughter, together with a few personal particulars. "_The
Age_, madam?" he almost shrieked. "_The Age_? They never publish illustrations."
"No," she replied. "But they publish advertisements and theatrical notices. My
daughter (she pronounced it ’darter’) is as good as a music-hall actress, and a
good sight better," she added. She had left cards on everyone in Park Lane, (she
called it "The Lane"), and upon a number of people in other fashionable
quarters, but had not received a single call in return. "Your only chance,
madam," Angell Herald ventured, "is to get into the public eye. These are the
days of advertisement. You must get the public to know you as they know our
generals and our politicians." "I know all about that," she replied, with a
certain asperity. "But how’s it going to be done?" "Well!" Angell Herald
replied, "I will think it over and let you know. Perhaps you will tell me to
whom I can write." For a moment she hesitated, and then saying, "Of course the
whole thing’s strictly in confidence?" Angell Herald bowed—she handed him her
card. On it he read "Mrs. Biltox-Jones, 376, Park Lane, W.," and in the corner
"Third Thursdays." Angell Herald smiled inwardly as he thought of the loneliness
of this lady on her "Third Thursdays." For a minute or two he gazed reflectively
at Mrs. Biltox-Jones’s card. Through his mind was running the "interview" with
Mr. Llewellyn John. He remembered the suggestion of the accident in stepping
into his car, how the Prime Minister had suggested that he should be assaulted
for purposes of publicity, and finally he recalled the suggestion of the
abduction of his daughter. Without pausing to think, he turned to Mrs. Biltox-
Jones. "You have a daughter, Mrs. Biltox-Jones?" he said, taking great care to
give her her hyphenated name. She started. "A daughter!" she said. "Of course
I’ve got a daughter." Her tone was that of someone accused of lacking some
necessary member. "Exactly," he said. "That may solve the difficulty. In these
days," he continued, "publicity is a very difficult matter." Angell Herald put
his fingers together in judicial fashion and proceeded, "There are two things
that the journalist recognises. One is ’copy,’ Mrs. Biltox-Jones, and the other
is ’news.’  Now news takes precedence over ’copy,’ just as birth does over
money, at least, it should do." "I don’t see what that’s got to do with the
matter at all," snapped Mrs. Biltox-Jones. Angell Herald could see that she had
not formed a very favourable opinion of him, or of his capabilities. "I don’t
understand what you mean by ’copy’ and ’news.’"

"Well," he continued, "I once heard a journalist define the two." Ha was quite
indifferent as to what Mrs. Biltox-Jones might think of him. "A friend once
asked him the same question, and his reply was, ’Now, if a dog bit a man, that
would be ’copy’; but, Mrs. Biltox-Jones, if a man bit a dog, that would be
’news.’"

Mrs. Biltox-Jones was clearly annoyed. She made a movement to rise; but to rise,
with Mrs. Biltox-Jones, was a matter of several movements, persistent and
sustained. "One moment, madam," Angell Herald continued. "In your own case, now,
in order to obtain the publicity you desire, you must endeavour to give the
Press something that it will regard as ’news’ in distinction from ’copy.’  Now,
as far as I can see, there are two ways in which you can achieve your object."
Mrs. Biltox-Jones began to look interested once more. "First you might arrange
to be seriously assaulted." "Me?" she gasped. "Me, assaulted? What on earth do
you mean, Mr. Herald?" "Well," he continued, "You might arrange for somebody to
meet you in a lonely place, and knock you down." "Knock _me_ down?" The italics
fail to do justice to Mrs. Biltox-Jones’s look and tone. "Are you mad?" she
demanded. "No," was the response. "I am endeavouring to help you. If you will
listen calmly, you will see what I’m driving at. The fact of a lady of your
position and wealth being publicly assaulted would appeal to the journalistic
mind, and would undoubtedly result in a great deal of Press notice." "But it
would be so painful," she replied. "Of course, there is always that. It might
even be fatal. There is, of course, an alternative measure, which I think, in
your case, might be even better: that is, the abduction of your daughter." "The
what?" she shrieked. "The abduction of Miss Biltox-Jones. Imagine the sensation!
Think of the ’copy’! Millionaire’s daughter abducted—I assume Mr. Biltox-Jones
is a millionaire. I believe all Army contractors who are business men have
become millionaires. Yes," Angell Herald added, "I think Miss Biltox-Jones might
be abducted." "That shows you don’t know Gertie," said Mrs. Biltox-Jones,
smiling grimly. At least, she made certain facial movements which were intended
to indicate a smile. Mrs. Biltox-Jones seemed to be thinking deeply. After fully
a minute’s silence she demanded, rather truculently,

"Will you abduct her?" Angell Herald drew himself up with dignity. "I am a
publicity agent, Mrs. Biltox-Jones, not a professional abductor of millionaires’
daughters. Furthermore I have a reputation to maintain." "All right, don’t get
’uffy," was her response. Angell Herald shuddered. Again there was silence
between them. "Gertie’s always complainin’ how dull she is," Mrs. Biltox-Jones
muttered to herself; "she might like it for a change. P’raps Martin might
arrange it. Martin’s my butler, he does everythink for me. He’s been with the
Duke of Porchester, and Prince Carmichael of Dam-Splititz." "Well," Angell
Herald proceeded. "Let us see Miss Biltox-Jones abducted. Imagine the Press the
next morning. You would apply to the police, you would intimate the terrible
news to every newspaper, and there would be scare headings. I merely offer this
as a suggestion. As a matter of fact, it is a little out of my usual line of
business. New conditions, however, Mrs. Biltox-Jones, demand new methods."
Angell Herald blessed Pearl for that exquisite phrase, and registered a vow not
to refuse his next application for a holiday in which to bury, marry or bail-out
a friend. He could almost see himself giving him a rise. "But how could I do
it?" she enquired. "That," Angell Herald replied, "I must leave to you, Mrs.
Biltox-Jones. I should gather that you are not lacking in resource or
originality. I should try Martin. English butlers are wonderfully resourceful.
Get your daughter abducted and the result will be that your name will be sounded
throughout the British Empire. I may add, by the way, that I should see she was
abducted for at least a fortnight. That would give time for a thorough Press
campaign. You would find that all the Colonial papers would copy the story, and
if Miss Biltox-Jones happened to be handsome, as I should imagine she would
be"—Angell Herald looked very pointedly at Mrs. Biltox-Jones, and she preened
herself like a second-hand peacock—"then the sensation created would be the
greater. "I am afraid, madam, that I can do nothing more than make this
suggestion; but you may be assured that if you act upon it, you will not lack
the publicity that I gather all ladies of your position seek." For a few moments
she was silent, then said, "And what’s all this cost, Mr. Herald?" "Oh," he
replied, "it’s a very trifling matter. Let us say fifty guineas, shall we,
especially as I am not able to be of any practical assistance to you." "I’ll
send you a cheque." Her jaw snapped with a determined air that convinced Angell
Herald that in the very near future Miss Biltox-Jones would be abducted. III

A little over a week later, Angell Herald had left the office to get his usual
simple lunch of everything the food restrictions permitted, and as much in the
way of extras as he could squeeze in, when his eye was arrested by a placard of
_The Evening Mail_. He had already received a cheque for fifty guineas from Mrs.
Biltox-Jones, and had dismissed the circumstance from his memory. This placard,
however, brought back the whole story vividly to his recollection. It read

ATTEMPTED ABDUCTION                              AN AMAZON FEAT

Something seemed to link up that newspaper placard with the fifty guinea cheque,
and he purchased _The Evening Mail_. On the front page of the paper, most of
which seemed to be covered with clever headlines, he read the following with
something akin to amazement:

ATTEMPTED ABDUCTION OP A MILLIONAIRE’S DAUGHTER                             A
MODERN AMAZON                      SOCIETY YOUNG LADY OUTWITS TWO
DESPERATE RUFFIANS                          THE ABDUCTORS CAPTURED
AN AMAZING FEAT

"Last evening, about 9.15, Miss Biltox-Jones, the daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Jeremiah Biltox-Jones, of 376 Park Lane, W., was motoring back from Epsom, where
she had been lunching with friends, when her car was stopped by someone waving a
red light on the middle of the road. The chauffeur, seeing the danger-signal,
immediately pulled up, and a moment afterwards, to his astonishment, found a
pistol presented to his head, and he was told that if he moved a muscle he would
be shot. "It was afterwards discovered that two masked men were responsible for
this outrage. The second man approached the car, and invited Miss Biltox-Jones
to alight, which she accordingly did. He then informed her that she was his
prisoner, and would be taken away to await the payment of a ransom. But they had
reckoned without their host, or shall we say hostess. It appears that Miss
Biltox-Jones is an adept at physical culture, ju jitsu and such like things.
With a swift movement she had her attacker on his back upon the road; hitting
him smartly on the temple with the butt-end of his own pistol, she rendered him
unconscious, and before the other ruffian was aware of what had happened, she
had floored him likewise. "With the aid of the chauffeur, the two men were
bound, placed in the car, and taken to the nearest police-station. They are to
appear this morning before the magistrate, the outrage having taken place on the
outskirts of London, when further particulars of this strange affair will
probably be divulged. "In the meantime we congratulate Miss Biltox-Jones on what
must be regarded as a remarkable achievement." There followed an interview with
the chauffeur; another interview with Miss Biltox-Jones, together with her
portrait. She proved to be a not uncomely girl of muscular proportions and
determined expression. For a moment Angell Herald was dazed at the turn events
had taken. He inwardly cursed Pearl and his ridiculous advice. He saw himself
involved in a most unsavoury business. He even wondered why he had not been sent
for to attend the police-court proceedings. What was he to do? There was nothing
for it but to wait for subsequent editions of the paper. Engagements prevented
him from returning to the office until nearly six. As he entered he saw that
Pearl was in a state of suppressed excitement. He too had read the wretched
story. "Mrs. Biltox-Jones to see you, sir." "What?" Angell Herald almost
shouted. "She’s been here three-quarters of an hour, sir. She insisted on
waiting." Never had Angell Herald felt such a coward. Why had he not foreseen
that she would descend upon him. Could he turn and fly? No: a man must appear a
hero before his own clerk. He would lose for ever Pearl’s respect if he were to
flee at that moment. Assuming an air of nonchalance, he said he would see Mrs.
Biltox-Jones immediately, and, with shaking hand, opened the door of his room,
prepared for a blast of reproach such as it had never been his fate to
experience. To his utter bewilderment, Mrs. Biltox-Jones was sitting smiling,
and, more wonderful still, holding in her hand a cheque, which she extended to
him, as she made certain bouncing movements, which he rightly interpreted as
preliminaries to her assuming an upright position. Utterly bewildered, he took
the cheque, What could be the meaning of this new development? Instinctively he
looked at the cheque; it was for a hundred guineas. Clearly Mrs. Biltox-Jones
was mad. "Mr. Herald," she began, in her wheezy voice, having got to her feet,
"you’ve done me a real service, you’ve got me what I wanted. You’re a wonderful
man." "But—but—" he stammered. "No, no," she continued. "No modesty. The idea
was entirely yours. Of course I didn’t anticipate Gertie upsetting things like
that; but then you never know what Gertie will do, and the poor child so enjoyed
it." Angell Herald pictured the Gertie whose photograph he had seen, "enjoying
it." Then his thoughts turned to the nefarious abductors. "But the men," he
asked, "Who were they?" "Oh! Martin arranged that. One was his brother, and the
other was John’s second cousin. John is my first footman. But, of course, a
great general has to be prepared for everything, as you said the other day."
(Angell Herald had no recollection of saying anything of the sort.) "So when I
heard these two men had been caught by Gertie, I decided to turn the whole thing
into a joke. Gertie was delighted, and said that she hadn’t enjoyed anything so
for a long time. The magistrate, of course, was most rude about it." "But the
butler’s brother and the—"

"They’ve been released. The magistrate pitched into them; but still, it’s all
right, although Martin’s brother has a big bump on his head, which will cost a
good deal, and John’s cousin can be squared. The teeth he lost were not really
his own, although he said they were until I threatened to ring up my dentist and
have his mouth examined." "Yes," she continued, after a pause, "it was really a
brilliant idea of yours, Mr. Herald, and I thank you for it. I shall recommend
you to my friends. My husband has great influence in the city, and he shall know
what a remarkable man you are." "And," began Angell Herald, "have the er—er——"

"Oh! I’ve had heaps of callers. Sir Jacob and Lady Wanderlust, Mrs. Hermann
Schmidt, Mr. Gottinhimmel, Mr. Lüftstoessel, Miss Strafestein, and a lot of the
best people in The Lane. And they’re so patriotic. They do _so_ hate the Kaiser,
and they simply _love_ England. We have become great friends." Angell Herald
congratulated her. "And now I must be going," she said, "I’ve got to arrange
about compensating those two poor men. If you knew Gertie as I know her, you’d
know they didn’t come off without severe er—er—contoosions, was what the doctor
called ’em." Mrs. Biltox-Jones sailed out of the office wheezing and smiling.
Angell Herald saw Pearl looking at him in a bewildered fashion, and he almost
fainted when handed the cheque and told to pay it into the bank. The late
evening papers were full of this extraordinary "joke." By a lucky chance, there
was no news from anywhere. The German Emperor had not been patronizing the
Almighty, and no one had shown on any of the fronts the least inclination to
push. The result was that the photographs of the Biltox-Joneses, of their
butler, the butler’s brother, of John, and John’s second cousin, filled every
newspaper. The scene of the "outrage" was pictured, with a cross marking the
spot on the road where Martin’s brother’s head had been tapped. In Angell
Herald’s heart there was a great gladness and a deep gratitude to Mr. Llewellyn
John! He had the greatest difficulty to restrain himself from giving Pearl a
rise.—Instead he gave him the cigar he had received from Trumpet a few days
previously. There are no half tones about either Trumpet or his cigars. At the
conclusion of the story Angell Herald, sat back with the air of a man prepared
to receive the congratulations that he knows are his due. He was obviously
disappointed when the only remark made was Sallie’s. "Poor old thing." "I should
like to meet that clerk of ’is," "whispered" Bindle to Windover. "’E ought to be
able to tell us some things, wot?" "Ha, yes," muttered Windover abstractedly,
"but it’s casting Pearls before swine though." *CHAPTER X*

*THE NIGHT CLUB VISITS BINDLE*

One Sunday evening on arriving at Dick Little’s flat I was greeted with the
announcement "J.B.’s ill."  I looked round at the gloomy faces. It was then that
I appreciated how the Night Club revolved round Bindle’s personality. From a
note Dick Little had received it appeared that Bindle had hurt his ankle and
been forced to lie up for a week. His letter was characteristic. It ran:—

"DEAR SIR,

I been kicking what I didn’t ought to have kicked, and I got to lay up for a
week. Cheero! I shall think of the Night Club. Yours respectfully,        JOE
BINDLE." We wondered what it was that Bindle had kicked that he ought not to
have kicked. There was, we felt sure, a story behind the letter. We looked at
each other rather helplessly. "Shall we begin?" asked Angell Herald. One of his
stories was down for that evening. "We must wait for Miss Carruthers," said Jim
Owen, a cousin of mine and rather an ass about women. At that moment Sallie and
Jack Carruthers turned up and were told the direful news. "Oh! poor J.B.," cried
Sallie, who had quite drifted into our way of speech. "What shall we do?" asked
Jack Carruthers. We all looked at each other as if expectant of a solution
anywhere but in our own brains. "I have it!" cried Sallie suddenly clapping her
hands, her eyes flashing with excitement. "Out with it, Sallie," said Jack,
putting his arm round her shoulders. Many of us envied him that habit of his.
"We’ll all go and see J.B.," cried Sallie. Dick Little nearly got notice to quit
through that idea of Sallie’s. The yell that went up to the ceiling above was as
nothing to the things that fell from the ceiling below. Tom Little was in a mad
mood, and he insisted that we should all form a ring round Sallie, and hand in
hand we flung ourselves round her; "flung" was the only word that describes our
motions. There were sixteen of us, and Dick Little’s rooms are not over large.
It was a mad rout. We were interrupted in our acclamation of Sallie’s
inspiration by a tremendous hammering at the door of the flat. Dick Little
opened it and let in a flood of the most exotic language to which we had ever
listened. It was talk that would have made a drill-sergeant envious. It had
about it the tang of the barrack-square. It silenced us and stilled our
movements as nothing else would have done. It poured in through the door like a
flood. It gave an intensely personal view of ourselves, our forebears and our
posterity, if any. It described our education, our up-bringing and the
inadequacy of the penal code of England. We stood in hushed admiration,
especially the men from Tim’s. Sallie listened for about half a minute, quite
unperturbed. It is a strange thing; but "language" has no effect on Sallie. I
have seen her listening quite gravely to the inspired utterances of a Thames
lighterman. This evening, at the end of half a minute, she walked to the door,
we crowding behind her to see the fun, for we had all recognised the voice of
General Burdett-Coombe, who lived immediately beneath Dick Little. Suddenly the
General’s eloquence stopped. He had seen Sallie. "Won’t you come in," she said
looking at him gravely, with eyes a little larger and a little grayer than
usual. "I—I—" stammered the General, then seeing us all gazing at him he burst
out. "God bless my soul, what on earth have I done? I had no idea there was a
lady here. I—I—"

"Please come in," said Sallie, "I want you to tell these men how horribly badly
behaved they are. You were doing it quite nicely; but I am afraid they didn’t
hear it all." The General looked from Sallie to the men, who had now streamed
out and were filling Dick Little’s small hall. Then seeing Sallie smile he
suddenly burst out laughing, showing a set of dazzlingly white teeth beneath his
grizzled grey moustache. "Routed, by heaven! routed and by a woman. My dear
young lady," he said, turning to Sallie, "I owe you a thousand apologies. I—I’m
afraid I rather let myself go. These young hooligans have knocked down my
electrolier. I thought the whole blessed place was coming on my head," and he
laughed again out of sheer boyish enjoyment. From that day Sallie and General
Burdett-Coombe became great friends, and that was how it happened that the
General came to join the Night Club. As he went down to his flat he once more
apologised; but Sallie said that he was quite justified in what he had said and
done. "Well, well," he cried after a swift glance to see if she were pulling his
leg, "Boys will be boys I suppose; but I wish they would leave my electrolier
alone. Good-night all," and the chorus of "good-nights" was almost as great in
volume as the shouts that had greeted Sallie’s inspiration. "Now then you
fellows, taxis," cried Tom Little. Three men dashed downstairs to commandeer all
the taxis in the neighbourhood. Tom Little and Bill Simmonds disappeared; but
the rest of us managed the crowd into the four taxis that were available. As we
sped along to Fenton Street, Fulham, where Bindle lives, each empty taxi that
approached was hailed and some of the party got out and entered. Eventually when
we arrived at Fenton Street the procession numbered eight vehicles. The
sensation we caused will go down to posterity as the greatest day in the annals
of the district. Neighbours flocked to their doors. Gramophones, which were
tinnily striving to reproduce masterpieces they had mis-heard, were allowed to
run down, and soon what portion of the street that was not occupied by taxis was
filled with open-mouthed residents. The general impression was that it was a
police raid, although how they reconciled Sallie with the police was difficult
to understand. Just as we were knocking at Bindle’s door, Tom Little and Bill
Simmonds arrived in a ninth vehicle, out of which they hauled two large suit-
cases. The door of Bindle’s house was opened by Ginger, who looked his
astonishment at seeing Sallie with some sixteen men behind her. "Is Mr. Bindle
in?" enquired Sallie. Without attempting to reply Ginger called over his
shoulder, "Someone to see yer, Joe." "Ask ’im in," came the cheery voice of
Bindle from within. "It ain’t ’im, it’s a lady." "Come along in, Martha, I know
’oo it is." Sallie passed by the open-mouthed Ginger, and we trooped in behind
her. Bindle was lying on a horse-hair couch with one ankle heavily bandaged. His
back was towards the door; but he called out over his shoulders, "Come in,
Martha, come in. ’Ow’s yer breath and ’ow’s ’Earty?" "It’s me," said Sallie,
regardless as to grammar. Bindle looked round as if someone had shot him from
behind, saw Sallie and the rest of us behind her. "Gawd Almighty," he exclaimed
in utter astonishment. "I’m blowed if it ain’t the Night Club. Cheero! the lot,"
and "the lot" cheero-d Bindle. Tom Little and Bill Simmonds then came forward
with their suit-cases. From these they produced what appeared to be an endless
stream of refreshments: bottles of beer, two bottles of whisky, a dozen syphons
of soda and a miscellaneous assortment of sandwiches such as are to be found on
public-house counters. For once in his life Bindle’s speech failed him, as he
watched the kitchen table being turned into a sort of public-house bar. Then
slowly a happy grin spread over his face and looking up at Sallie, who had come
and stood beside him, said,

"This’ll do me more good than all the doctor’s stuff, miss." I looked at Bindle
closely, the voice was so unlike his. Before leaving Dick Little’s flat, Sallie
had collected all the flowers that she could find, which she carried in a big
bouquet. Dick Little is fond of flowers. "Is them flowers for the coffin, miss,"
enquired Bindle, with a strange twist of a smile. "They’re for Mrs. Bindle,"
said Sallie with inspiration. "Well, I’m—  Hi, stop ’im, don’t let ’im go."
Bindle’s eyes had caught sight of Ginger, who was slipping out of the door. Jack
Carruthers made a grab and caught the delinquent by the sleeve. Ginger seemed
inclined to show fight; but three or four of Tim’s men soon persuaded his that
God is always on the side of the big battalions, and Ginger was led back into
the room. "Ginger," said Bindle, reprovingly, "I’m surprised at you. When Miss
Sallie comes to see us, you go sneaking off as if you’d picked ’er pocket, or
owed ’er money. Wot jer mean by it?" "I don’t ’old wiv——" began Ginger. "Never
mind what you ’old with, Ging, you’ve got to stand by and see your old pal ain’t
choked with all these good things." A fugitive shaft of light came into Ginger’s
eyes as he saw the array of bottles on the kitchen table. Tom Little and Bill
Simmonds were busy commandeering all the glasses, cups, mugs, etc., they could
find on the dresser, and unscrewing the tops of the beer bottles. "Ow jer come?"
enquired Bindle while these preparations were in progress. "Taxis," I replied
mechanically, "There are nine of them waiting outside." "Nine?" exclaimed
Bindle, his eyes open to their full extent. "Nine taxis in Fenton Street? ’Old
be ’Orace!" and he laughed till the tears poured down his cheeks. Bindle was in
a mood to laugh at anything. "An’ wot’s all the neighbours doin’, sir." "Oh!
they’re busy counting them," said Carruthers, "they think it’s a police raid."
This was one of the few occasions on which I have seen Bindle laugh, as a rule
he grins. Presently, wiping his eyes with the corner of a newspaper he had been
reading, he cried "’Ere, a glass of milk for the invalid." Tom Little dashed for
the largest jug and filled it up with such haste that the froth foamed down the
sides. Bindle clutched the jug with both hands. "Excuse my getting up, miss, but
’eres to the Night Club." We all joined in the toast. "I wonder wot Mrs. B.’ll
think of it all when she comes back," remarked Bindle. "Nine taxis an’ a police
raid. They’re sure to tell ’er." The seating accommodation in Bindle’s kitchen
was limited. A chair was found for Sallie, and several more were brought out of
the adjoining parlour; but most of us sat on the floor. Windover occupied one
end of the fender and Angell Herald the other. The comparison between the two
was interesting. Windover sat as if all his life had been spent on the end of a
fender, Angell Herald, on the other hand, as if he meant everybody to understand
that never before had he found himself so situated. Windover was enjoying
himself, Angell Herald was acutely uncomfortable. He knew it must be all right
by the fact of Windover being there; but his whole appearance seemed to convey
the fact that he was unaccustomed to sitting on a fender with a china mug of
whisky and soda in one hand, and a ham sandwich of public-house proportions in
the other. Windover seemed to find a quiet enjoyment in the situation. "How did
you hurt your foot, Mr. Bindle?" enquired Sallie. "Oh! I jest kicked up against
somethink wot I didn’t ought to ’ave kicked, miss," was Bindle’s response. To
further questioning he was evasive. It was clear that he did not wish to tell us
what had happened. It was equally clear that Sallie was determined to know. "Why
don’t you tell ’em, Joe, what you did?" It was Ginger who broke in. A different
Ginger from him who had endeavoured to slip out of the room, a Ginger mellowed
by three bottles of beer. Finding the whole attention of the room centred upon
Bindle, Ginger buried his head in a large milk jug from which he was drinking.
"Look ’ere, Ging, you keep that muzzle on. You ain’t no talker." Sallie-turned
to Ginger, who had already fallen a victim to her eyes. "Please Mr.—Mr.—"

And then it was I remembered that no one had ever heard Ginger’s name. "We call
’im Ginger, miss; but you mustn’t let ’im talk. ’E’s some’ow out of the way of
it." "Please Mr. Ginger, tell us what happened?" Bindle made a motion as if to
stop Ginger, who replaced the jug on the table and wiped his lips with the back
of his disengaged hand. "It was down at the yard, miss. Ruddy Bill tied a tin on
to Polly’s kitten’s tail." "But—but—" said Sallie, "I don’t understand." She
looked from Ginger to Bindle. "You are an ole ’uggins," said Bindle to Ginger.
"Yer couldn’t keep that face of yours shut, could yer? It’s like this, miss.
There’s a little kid down at the yard wot’s got a kitten, all fluffy fur, and
Ruddy Bill tied a tin on to the poor thing’s tail, an’ it went almost mad with
fright, so—so my foot sort o’ came up against Ruddy Bill. ’E wouldn’t fight, you
see." "Ruddy Bill’s in the ’firmary," rumbled Ginger. "Yes, an’ I’m on the
couch." Never had the Bindles’ kitchen witnessed a scene such as that on which
the Night Club descended upon it. Even Ginger’s gloom was mitigated under the
influence of the talk and good fellowship, assisted by unlimited beer. The
kitchen floor was covered with men and mugs, glasses and bottles of whisky and
syphons of soda. The atmosphere was grey with tobacco smoke, and the air full of
the sound of half a dozen separate conversations. Bindle had never looked
happier. Every now and then he cast his eyes round in the direction of the door.
His dramatic instinct told him that the culmination of the evening’s festivities
would synchronise with Mrs. Bindle’s advent. "You’ll stay an’ see Mrs. B., miss,
won’t yer," said Bindle to Sallie. "She’s been a bit poorly of late. I think ’er
soul is ’urtin’ ’er more’n usual." "Mr. Bindle," said Sallie severely, "you must
not tease her. You must smooth things, not make them rougher." "I don’t
understand women, miss," he replied, then after a pause he continued, "There’s
one thing yer can always be sure about, an’ that is no matter wot yer think a
woman’s goin’ to do, she’s bound to give yer a bit of a surprise." "As how?"
enquired the Boy. "Well, it won’t do yer no ’arm to learn, you wi’ that smile o’
yours." The Boy grew scarlet. "You’re in for trouble, Mr. ’Indenburg, sure as
sure." "What is in your mind," enquired Carruthers. We all like to hear Bindle
on women. "I was thinkin’ o’ that air-raid, last Saturday," he replied. "Now
Mrs. Bindle, although she knows that death will be ’a release from the fetters
of the flesh,’ as she puts it, yet when she ’eard the guns she bolted into the
coal-cellar as if ’er soul was as shaky as mine. When I gets ’ome there she was
a settin’ on a chair in the kitchen a-’oldin’ of ’er ’eart, ’er face all white
where it wasn’t black from the coal." "And what did you do, Mr. Bindle?"
enquired Sallie, leaning forward with eager interest. Sallie has a theory that
in reality Bindle is very considerate and thoughtful in regard to Mrs. Bindle.
"Well, miss," said Bindle after a momentary hesitation, "I give ’er three goes
o’ whisky an’ water." "But I thought she was temperance," broke in Dare. "She
_was_, sir," was the reply. "When she’d lapped up the last o’ the third go,
which finished up the ’alf quartern, she turns on me an’ she jest gives me
pickles." "But why?" enquired Sallie. "She said I done it a-purpose, makin’ ’er
break the pledge, an’ that Gawd didn’t ought to blame ’er, ’cause she was
married to an ’eathen. Funny ’er not thinkin’ of it before she’d ’ad the lot,
that’s wot does me. "Talkin’ of air raids," he continued after a pause, "it’s
funny ’ow they seem to affect them as are surest of gettin’ an ’arp an’
trimmin’s, while they leaves the ’eathen merry and bright. Now me an’ Ginger was
on the tail o’ the van when the ’Uns’ little ’ummin’ birds started a-layin’
eggs. People yelled to ’im to get under cover: but the ’orses was scared, an’ ’e
goes to ’old their ’eads an’ talk to ’em in that miserable way of ’is. Them
’orses was never so glad in all their lives to ’ear ole Ginger’s voice." "And
what did you do, J.B.?" enquired the Boy with interest. Bindle turned and looked
him full in the face. "I ain’t in this story, Mr. Clever ’Indenburg. You can
think o’ me as under the van. Ginger was jest as cool as wot you was when you
got that bit o’ ribbon for your tunic." The expression in the Boy’s face was
evidence that Bindle had scored. "Now take ’Earty," Bindle continued, "’E’s one
o’ them wot’s got a front row ticket for ’eaven; yet when the guns begins to go
off, and the bombs was droppin’, ’e nips down into the potato-cellar ’to take
stock’, although ’e ’adn’t ’ad a potato there for months. Took ’im quite a long
time it did too, takin’ stock o’ nothink. There was poor ole Martha left to look
after the shop. Rummy card ’Earty. ’E’s afraid o’ too much joy, thinks it might
sort o’ get to ’is ’ead. ’E’s nuts on ’eaven an’ angels; but it’s business as
usual as long as ’e can. "No," Bindle continued after a pause in which to take a
pull at his tankard and recharge and light his pipe, "the longer I lives the
less I seems to know about people. There’s Mrs. B. ’oo’s always sayin’ that ’the
way o’ the transgressor is ’ard’, yet look at me! I’m always cheerio, but she’s
mostly like a camel wot’s jest found another ’ump a-growin’. "No one don’t never
seem able to understand another cove’s way o’ lookin’ at things. I ’ad a sister
once, pretty gal she was, too, got it from me I expect. I used to get quite a
lot o’ free beer from my mates wot wanted me to put in a good word with Annie.
Seemed funny like to me that they should want to ’ang round ’er when there was
other gals about. "Yes," continued Bindle after a pause, "there’s a lot o’
things I don’t understand. Look at them young women a-gaddin’ about the West-End
when it’s war an’ ’ell for our boys out there. Sometimes I’d like to ask ’em wot
they mean." "They’re cultivating the present so that the future shall not find
them without a past," murmured Windover. "Nietzsche says that woman is engaged
in a never-ending pursuit of the male," said Dare. "Perhaps that explains it."
"Sort o’ chase me Charlie," said Bindle, "well I ain’t nothink to say agin’ it,
so long as Mrs. B. don’t get to know. "This place looks like a pub," Bindle
remarked a few minutes later. "Wonder wot Mrs. B.’ll say." "That’s what you
ought to have, J.B.," said Jim Colman. "’Ave wot?" enquired Bindle. "A pub.,"
was the response. "I’d like to ’ave a little pub. o’ me own," Bindle murmured,
"an’ I got a name for it too." In response to loud cries of "Name, name" from
the "Tims" men Bindle replied. "I didn’t ought to tell yer, I’m afraid as it’s
jest like salt, it makes yer drink like a camel." "Come on out with it," we
cried. "Well, ’ere goes. I’d call it ’The Thirsty Soul.’"  After a pause, he
added, "If I was in the bung line I’d ’ave the tastiest things in yaller ’eaded
gals be’ind the bar as could be found for a ’undred miles round. Of course I
should ’ave to get rid o’ Mrs. B. first. She’s as jealous as an ’en over a china
egg wot it ain’t laid. "It’s no use bein’ in the public line when you’re
married. Poor ole Artie Ball found that out, ’im wot used to keep ’The
Feathers.’  One day ’e took ’is barmaid out, an’ next mornin’ ’is missus took it
out o’ the barmaid—in ’andfulls, she did. The poor gall looked like an ’alf
plucked goose when Artie’s missus remembered it was nearly dinner time. Funny
thing ’ow women fight over us," this with an air. A hot argument had sprung up
between some of the men from "Tim’s" as to the possibility of balancing the
human body in the same way that the ancients balanced the figure of Mercury,
viz. on one foot, the body thrown forward. This had resulted in a determination
of the ayes to prove it by demonstrating the possibility of standing upon a beer
bottle with one foot. Soon the infection spread throughout the room, and
everybody, with the exception of Sallie, Angell Herald and Bindle, was
endeavouring to emulate the classical figure of Eros on the fountain at
Piccadilly Circus. Everybody seemed to be calling upon everybody else to look,
and just as they looked, down came the demonstrator. It was this moment that an
unkind fate chose for the appearance of Mrs. Bindle. To some extent she had been
prepared for the unusual by the line of taxi-cabs in Fenton Street, and also by
the tales of the neighbours, who had gathered in ever increasing force. Two
local special constables, who had endeavoured to "regulate the traffic" and
control the crowds, had given up the task in despair, discovering that no
special is a prophet in his own district. One was a butcher, who found it
utterly impossible to preserve his official dignity in the face of cries of
"Meat! Meat!" and "Buy! Buy!" By the time Mrs. Bindle arrived, the police-raid
theory was in danger of suffering eclipse in favour of a German spy, the nine
taxis, it was alleged, having brought soldiers and officials from the War
Office. Mrs. Bindle entered her own home in a state of bewilderment. For a
moment or two she stood at the door unseen, endeavouring to penetrate the grey
smoke, which was rapidly choking Sallie. Windover was the first to catch sight
of her, and he descended hurriedly from his bottle. Then Sallie saw her and next
Bindle. Soon the whole room had its eyes fixed upon Mrs. Bindle’s attenuated
figure, which stood there like an accusing conscience. Bindle grinned, the rest
of us looked extremely sheepish, as if caught at something of which we were
ashamed. Once more it was Sallie who saved the situation. "Oh, Mrs. Bindle," she
said, going across the room, "I hope you’ll forgive us. We heard that Mr. Bindle
was ill and came over to see him. I wish you would keep these boys in order."
She looked at the "Tim’s" men with a smile. "They are always playing tricks of
some sort or other." Mrs. Bindle looked round the room as if uncertain what to
do or say. Then her gaze returned to Sallie. We looked at her anxiously to see
which way the wind was likely to blow. We almost cheered when we saw a frosty
smile flit across her features. "I’m sure it’s very kind of you, miss. Won’t you
come into the parlour?" With Mrs. Bindle, "Won’t you come into the parlour?" was
an announcement of friendship, and Bindle heaved a sigh of relief. Sallie
beckoned to Jack Carruthers. "Jack," she said, "Get those boys to clear up."
Without waiting for Jack to deliver her instructions, everyone set to work to
clear up the chaos, and in three minutes the place was as orderly as it had been
before our arrival, save for a pile of glasses and mugs in the sink. The bottles
had been stowed away in the suit-cases, and the kitchen looked as it did before
the descent upon it of the Night Club. Mrs. Bindle had fixed her eyes on the
bunch of roses, looted from Dick Little’s flat. "Oh, I brought those for you,
Mrs. Bindle," said Sallie. That broke down Mrs. Bindle’s last defences. At
Windover’s invitation, and in spite of Mrs. Bindle’s protests, several of the
Tims men set to work to wash up at the sink. Windover did the washing, whilst
the others wiped, amidst a perfect babel. Mrs. Bindle looked from one to the
other. Presently turning to Sallie she asked in a whisper, "Is the lord here,
miss?" "The lord?" questioned Sallie in surprise. "Bindle says a lord belongs to
your club. Is he here, miss?" "Oh! Lord Windover," cried Sallie laughing, "Yes,
he’s here." "Is that him, miss?" enquired Mrs. Bindle gazing at Angell Herald,
who stood apart from the others with an awkward air of detachment. Sallie
shuddered as she followed Mrs. Bindle’s gaze and saw the white satin tie
threaded through a diamond ring. "No, that’s Mr. Herald. Lord Windover’s washing
up. Winnie," she called out, "I want to introduce you to Mrs. Bindle." Windover
approached, eyeglass in eye, with a jug in one hand, a towel he had snatched up
in the other, and a red bordered cloth round his waist. Sallie introduced him
and he bowed with his usual exquisite grace, chatted for a few moments, and then
returned to his duties at the sink. In Mrs. Bindle’s eyes there was a great
wonder, and as they returned to Angell Herald, a little disappointment and
regret. Finally we all trooped off the best of friends. Bindle declared that he
was cured, and Mrs. Bindle said she was very pleased that she had come in before
we had taken our departure. We stowed ourselves away in the taxis and, as the
procession started, Fenton Street raised its voice in a valedictory cheer.
"Winnie," said Sallie to Windover as we bowled eastward at a penny a furlong,
"To-night you have wrecked Mrs. Bindle’s cherished ideal of the aristocracy. I
shall never forget her face when I told her that the man who was washing up was
the lord! She had fixed upon Mr. Herald." Windover screwed his glass into his
eye and gazed at Sallie in silence. Thus ended one of the most notable nights in
the history of the Night Club. *CHAPTER XI*

*THE GENERAL BECOMES A MEMBER*

On the Monday morning following our visit to Bindle, Dick Little had descended
to General Burdett-Coombe’s flat to make a formal apology. The old boy had
laughed off the incident as of no importance, refused to allow Dick Little to
pay for the damage, and vowed that he liked young fellows with a spice of the
devil in them, had been young himself once. He gave his guest a glass of
Trafalgar brandy, and had readily accepted an invitation to be present at next
Sunday’s gathering. "Damme, sir, I think it will be safer up there than down
here," he said as he gazed ruefully up at the ceiling from which hung the wreck
of his electrolier. From that time the General became one of our most regular
members, and was well in the first flight as regards popularity. He proved a
splendid old fellow, full of good stories of his campaigning experiences, modest
and kindly, for all his gust of anger on the night of our first meeting. From
the first he was Sallie’s slave. One night he was raving to half-a-dozen of us
about Sallie’s eyes. "Such eyes," he cried, looking from one to the other as if
challenging contradiction, "I never could resist grey eyes. Why damme, sir, if
I’d married a girl with grey eyes (the General is a bachelor) I should have been
as harmless as—as——"

"A taube, sir," suggested the Boy slyly. The General turned on him like a
cyclone. "When I was your age, sir, I should have been shot for interrupting
a——" Then the Boy smiled that radiant, disarming smile of his and the General
made a grab at him and missed. "Wot’s a ’towber,’ sir?" Bindle enquired of
Windover in a whisper. Bindle’s whispers are as clearly heard as those of the
villain in a melodrama. "Before the war, J.B.," replied Windover, "’taube’ was
the German for ’dove’; since then it has become the vehicle of frightfulness."
Bindle looked from Windover to Dare with wrinkled forehead. "Stripped of its
corrosive verbiage, Windover means that ’taube’ is the name of a German
aeroplane." "Oh! a tawb," said Bindle, his face clearing. "’E do love to wrap
things up, don’t ’e?" he added, indicating Windover with an ever-ready thumb.
"Anyone could see ’e ain’t married." Later in the evening I heard the Boy say to
the General in what he meant to be a whisper—

"I hope I didn’t offend you, sir. I ought not to have said——"

"Tut, tut," said the General. "It’s all right, Boy. Damme; but times have
changed since I was a youngster," and he pinched the Boy’s arm affectionately.
Upon the subject of the new armies the General was particularly interesting. It
was easy to see that, coming from army stock, he found the civilian soldier
difficult to reconcile with military tradition; but he was a sportsman above all
things. "My Gad! sir," he had exclaimed to a few of us one evening some days
after his return from France, where he had been in an official capacity,
"they’re wonderful. I was prejudiced, I confess it. Imagine an army of
stockbrokers, lawyers, fiddlers, clerks and chauffeurs. What could they know of
soldiering? But when I saw them, talked with them, why damme, sir, they made me
feel a child at the game." "Keen!" he exclaimed in answer to a question. Then he
laughed, "Why there was one young lieutenant-colonel who started as a private
two years ago, a splendid officer, and he actually told me that he hated
soldiering, hated it, sir, yet was carrying-on as if he cared for nothing else.
It’s amazing! "In my time," and the old boy straightened himself to his full
five feet nine inches, "the prospect of war sent us half wild with excitement;
but these fellows don’t like it, have no enthusiasm, want to get back to their
pens and tennis-rackets; yet they’re born soldiers. "They talk about funk and
feeling afraid in a way that would have got a man ragged out of his regiment in
my day;——Damme, I don’t understand it!" "So you don’t altogether disapprove of
the new army, General?" It was Sallie who enquired. She had just entered
unobserved. "Disapprove!" cried the General spinning round and shaking hands.
"Disapprove! It’s a privilege for an old fogey like me to be allowed to talk to
such fellows." "General," said Sallie quietly, "I think the chivalry of the old
army is equal to the spirit of the new," and the General actually blushed, at
least the red-brown of his cheeks took on a bluish tinge. When the time came for
the General’s story I was embarrassed by the choice he offered. There were yarns
about every quarter of the globe, and half the races of the earth. Wherever
there had been a chance of a brush, the old boy had managed to get sent
somewhere close at hand, and when the smoke had burst into flame, he invariably
discovered that a month or two’s leave was due to him. All his leave seemed to
be spent in getting attached to someone else’s expeditionary force. Reading
between the lines it was easy to see that he was a good officer, and he never
seemed to find much difficulty in getting a staff appointment. *I*

It was one of those Indian Frontier affairs of which the world hears little. In
high quarters there is a vague consciousness that something has happened, a
paragraph or two in the newspapers, with a list of casualties, announces the
return of the heroes, a few families are plunged into mourning and there the
matter ends. An expeditionary force was trailing its sinuous, sensitive body
wearily along upon the homeward march. The officers were gloomy and short of
speech, the men sullen and dispirited. In the hearts of all there was a glow of
dull resentment. They had not suffered defeat it is true; still no crushing blow
had been struck, and to-day as they toiled silently along in a cloud of dust
there was dissatisfaction, a smouldering passion of discontent. Brigadier-
General Charles Stanley de Winton Mossop, C.B., was a man of theories, and the
soldier understands theories in direct ratio to their successful application. He
is a cog in the great machine of war, and is content if the whole mechanism work
smoothly. If he be conscious of any friction of the parts, he unhesitatingly
condemns the engineer. Two months previously, some five thousand men of all
arms, had set out elated at the prospect of active service. Even the old
campaigners were cynically jovial as they told the "recruities" what to expect.
"You wait, sonnies," Sergeant Tonks, a weather-beaten old veteran of twenty
years’ service, had said good-humouredly, "You just wait, you’ll see!" They had
seen! They had seen two months of soldiering under service conditions with
nothing to show for it, and their ideas of applied war had undergone
considerable revision. They had seen two months of arduous campaigning against a
foe that had never learned the meaning of defeat; had never retired or broken
but to come again. A foe that sniped all night, and hung about the flanks all
day; now showing itself ahead; not threatening the rear, with a special eye for
a rush at awkward moments. Striking camp had become a positive torture, and the
hour before dawn a period of imaginative suspense; for the men’s confidence had
been shaken. At first the subalterns had talked sagely about "protection on the
line of march," scouting and the value of "cover." They had views, and a healthy
competition had sprung up amongst those in charge of scouting-parties and "flank
guards." They had worked with an almost incredible zeal. Every likely bit of
"cover" was not only carefully examined, but examined with enthusiasm, even if
it were no larger than a man’s head. There had been innumerable false alarms,
which demonstrated clearly their watchfulness. But that was now a memory. The
natural eagerness to excel had been damped, and there had insidiously crept into
the minds of all the suspicion that they were badly led. Brigadier-General
Mossop had evolved what was then an entirely new and original conception of the
art of war. The present command gave him an opportunity of putting into practice
his pet scheme of communicating orders, in the event of night attack, by
coloured fires and rockets. He had lectured his officers upon the impossibility
of conveying commands accurately by word of mouth in the darkness and confusion
of a night attack. Incidentally he had pointed out the advantages of his own
method. They had listened respectfully, received his written "Orders of Night
Attack" in grim silence, and among themselves had dubbed their commander "Old
Brock"; and "Old Brock" he remained to the end. There was one young subaltern,
inclined to regard soldiering as a subject for serious study, who regarded Old
Brock’s craze for novelty as a grave danger. In a perimeter camp of 5,000 men,
rocket communication was, to his view, ridiculous. It might, he argued, at any
moment involve the force in disaster. He cast many speculative glances at the
chest in which the fireworks were carefully arranged in compartments, each
numbered with embossed figures, enabling them to be felt in the dark. For days
the young subaltern went his way wrapped in his own gloom. At length the clouds
seemed to disappear as if by magic, and it was noted that he was very frequently
seen with the sergeant who had charge of Old Brock’s chest. After a week’s
march, the force was well into the enemy’s country. One dark night a nervous
sentry had fired his rifle and explained the circumstance by an account of
shadowy forms. Voices barked out peremptory commands, men clutched their rifles
and formed up, maxims were cleared and everything made ready. Presently a rocket
rose with a majestic whirr and broke into a hundred green stars. "Old Brock’s at
it," murmured Major O’Malley. "That’s _Prepare to Receive Enemy_," murmured a
subaltern, who had given much time to the study of his Chief’s "Orders." "Rather
late in the day to prepare," growled a captain of gunners. "Might as well say
’Prepare to cut your teeth.’"

The men stood silent, some with a grin of expectation as they gazed in the
direction of the Brigadier’s tent; others with a queer shivery feeling at the
base of the spine, which communicated itself to the knees and teeth. The butt-
end of a rifle struck the ground with a dry, hard snap. "Silence!" barked a
voice. There was a murmur of deep expostulation, passionate but repressed. Then
a curious thing happened. First a Roman candle vomited its coloured balls into
the inky night, casting a ghostly green light upon the upturned faces. "_Enemy
breaking through to the East_. My God!" gasped the subaltern. There was a
movement among the men, and a splutter of rifle-fire which soon died away. "As
you were," shouted a voice. A moment’s silence. Next there rose three red and
blue rockets, then a swarm of whirring, hissing, serpent-like streams of fire,
lighting up the whole encampment as they broke into a thousand points of fire.
It had been the Brigadier’s theory to fire the rockets at an angle so as to
light up the surrounding country whilst leaving the encampment in darkness.
There was a laugh from the ranks, a short, sharp, snapping sound that died
almost with its own utterance. More rockets followed, then a red fire gradually
sprang into being, dull at first; but growing in volume until eventually it
embraced in its ruddy glow the whole country for half a mile round. "There ain’t
much fun in watchin’ fireworks when yer can’t say wot yer think o’ them,"
grumbled one man in a whisper to his neighbour. The subaltern was busily engaged
in trying to read the "Orders of Night Attack." He muttered brokenly from time
to time. "_Enemy repulsed North.—-Withdraw to inner defences.—Square broken to
West—Fix bayonets._"—He ceased, and only the crackle of bursting rockets broke
the stillness. The red fire began to wane, the rockets ceased, and the darkness
became more pronounced. Later, no enemy being discovered, the guards were re-
posted and the camp reassumed its normal appearance. How it happened that the
new code of signalling went wrong was never satisfactorily explained. The
Brigadier was furious, and next day subjected Sergeant "Rockets," as he was ever
afterwards called among the men, to a searching examination. The sergeant could
never be persuaded to give an explanation of how it occurred, or what took place
afterwards in the Brigadier’s tent. There was a story current to the effect that
"Rockets" had deliberately brought about the fiasco as a protest against
innovation; but the currency of camp-stories is no index to their accuracy.
Three days later an attack upon the camp at dawn had been repulsed with loss;
but it had not been followed up. The men chafed and murmured among themselves;
the officers saw a golden opportunity for a decisive blow pass unnoticed. "Old
Brock," who alone seemed tranquil, penned lengthy dispatches descriptive of the
enemy’s defeat and discouragement. So matters went on. Nothing more was
accomplished beyond a few successful skirmishes, which to the Brigadier appeared
in the light of important victories. The correspondents, there were three,
chafed and fretted. "It’s a damned shame," remarked Chisholme hotly, "that the
men’s hearts should be shrivelled up by such an example of official incapacity.
There’ll be more heard of this when I get near the telegraph," he added
significantly. "You chaps shall get your own back, or* The Morning Independent*
is a pulseless, chicken-hearted rag." Chisholme’s directness and picturesque
phraseology were proverbial. On this occasion his remarks were directed at Major
Blaisby and another officer lounging about the correspondent’s tent. Chisholme
had an influential family behind him and this, coupled with the high value he
placed upon his own opinions, assured his two friends that, sooner or later,
there would be the devil to pay, and the knowledge comforted them. In spite of
his insufferable habit of bragging, Chisholme was popular. Strictly speaking he
was a non-combatant; yet he had already had several opportunities of showing his
mettle. On one occasion at least he had performed an action which, had he been
in the Service, would have assured him of the V.C. Between Correspondent and
General a coolness had sprung up. Once the Brigadier had taken occasion to
rebuke him for his recklessness, urging as a reason for the remonstrance the
possibility of some portion of the force being involved in a disaster, owing to
his precipitancy and lack of judgment. Now that the —— Punitive Expedition was
upon the homeward march. The casualties among mules had been extremely heavy,
even for a frontier force, and the Brigadier was faced with a grave problem. At
a spot about four days’ march from the frontier, he announced his intention of
establishing a temporary post to guard the sick, the guns and the surplus
ammunition. It was a risky proceeding; but the force was running short of food,
and must make forced marches to the frontier. A day was spent in throwing up
hasty defenses ("Ruddy scratches," Sergeant Tonks called them), a day spent in
active speculation as to who would be selected for the command. When Major
Blaisby of the —th Gurkhas was informed that the Brigadier’s choice had fallen
upon him, he flushed with pleasure: but when he heard that only fifty men were
to be left with him he almost gasped with astonishment. The news spread with the
rapidity peculiar to camps, and Blaisby was the centre of a group of brother
officers eager in their congratulations, and fervid in their denunciations of
the insufficiency of the force. Blaisby and Chisholme had been on intimate
terms, in fact a warm friendship had sprung up between the two men. Immediately
on hearing the news, Chisholme had marched straight to the Brigadier’s tent and
requested to be allowed to remain behind as a volunteer. He met with a curt
refusal. That night, those who were collected in the correspondent’s tent, were
treated to a remarkable display of eloquence. Chisholme, with his back to the
tent-pole, poured forth a burning stream of protest at not being allowed to
stay. Blaisby stood by moody and silent. At length he was persuaded by his
impulsive friend to seek out the Brigadier and ask for a larger force. He left
with unwilling steps. In the midst of a particularly eloquent passage on the
part of Chisholme, Blaisby returned. He was white to the lips, and there was an
ominous quiver about the corners of his mouth. A dead silence greeted him. Then
it was that Chisholme showed himself to be something more than an orator.
Walking up to Blaisby he linked his arm in his, and led him out of the tent.
When he returned alone the Correspondent’s tent was empty. There is a fine sense
of chivalry among English gentlemen. Two hours later Chisholme made his way
through the darkness to Blaisby’s tent. The two men paced up and down conversing
earnestly in undertones. The soft light of the false dawn was touching the
Eastern horizon before they parted. Chisholme returned to his tent and threw
himself down to snatch an hour’s sleep. Blaisby continued to pace up and down
until the light grew stronger, when he fetched a small portmanteau from his
tent, and at this improvised table he sat writing letters until reveille
sounded. As soon as the Brigadier was stirring his orderly informed him that
Lieutenant Blaisby wished to know when it would be convenient to see him. The
Brigadier, suppressing an exclamation of impatience, bade the orderly shew him
in. For half-an-hour the two remained together. Finally Blaisby left the tent
with a grim, set face and went to seek Chisholme. The sun was well up when the
march was resumed. As the main body got into motion the men broke out into "Auld
Lang Syne." The Brigadier sent an A.D.C. to "stop that damned folly." There was
a wringing of hands as his comrades bade farewell to Blaisby. Three hearty
cheers split the air, bringing a frown to the Brigadier’s face. He said nothing,
feeling that the men were none too well in hand. As he rode along by the side of
his Brigade-Major he surprised that officer by remarking "Blaisby is a very able
officer,—we shall hear more of him." Chisholme remained behind until the
rearguard was almost out of sight, then with a hasty handshake and a "God bless
you, old chap" he galloped off. Blaisby now found himself with thirty-five
native and fifteen white troops, two subalterns and a young surgeon, in all
fifty-three. He walked round the hastily formed entrenchment and viewed the
whole with a calm impassive face. Turning to the senior sub. he bade him call
the men together. In a few words he told them that they were upon a very
dangerous service. The work would be arduous and the fighting hard, but they
must remember that their own safety and the honour of the corps from which they
were drawn depended upon their exertions. The men cheered, and the eyes of the
little Gurkhas flashed at the thought of handgrips with the enemy. Directly the
mid-day meal was over, the force was divided into three parties: one was sent
out scouting, another ordered to sleep, whilst the third, under Blaisby himself,
set to work with pick and spade. For two days and nights they worked without
cessation: entrenching, scouting, sleeping; sleeping, entrenching, scouting.
"Blaisby’ll be a corpse or a colonel before the year’s out," remarked the junior
sub. At first the men worked doggedly, as well-trained soldiers will. They were
taking the measure of their commander, watching him furtively whilst on duty,
discussing him eagerly over their pipes when relieved. Soon they began to fall
under the spell of his personality, and a wave of enthusiasm took possession of
them. The private is ever ready to acknowledge a master mind, and next to
knowing that his officer is a gentleman, he likes best to feel that he is a
being of superior attainments. At the end of two days, a formidable array of
defences had been completed. In the centre a pit, some six feet deep and thirty
feet square, had been dug. This was roofed over with canvas. A cutting three
feet wide gave entrance to "the oven," as it came to be called, which was to act
as arsenal and hospital for the worst cases. The guns and much of the surplus
ammunition were built into the camp-defences. Everything now being ready, the
men were ordered to rest. Never did men sleep so in the history of war. They
were sick of sleep; yet Blaisby’s personality had taken such a grip of their
minds, that eyes would close mechanically at his approach. He wished them to
sleep; they would sleep if it killed them. One night Blaisby happened to
overhear a remark of the surgeon. "It’s all very well to say sleep," he
grumbled, "But how the devil is a man to sleep unless he’s tired?" The next day
orders were given to keep the men occupied with sports. Running, jumping,
wrestling, skipping, sparring and every conceivable form of exercise was
indulged in. Blaisby gave prizes in money, until his small store was exhausted,
then he turned to his kit and distributed all he could actually spare as prizes.
The men were thus kept interested and occupied. On the third day after the
departure of the main body the enemy was sighted; why they had not attacked at
once was never explained. The next day a movement was observed upon some rising
ground, to the eastward. Forms were observed flitting about, tiny dots of white
relieved here and there by a splash of brilliant green, as a banner caught the
rays of the setting sun. That night a keener watch than ever was kept. An hour
before dawn, a rifle shot snapped out sharply upon the crisp night air. Absolute
silence reigned. Presently a sharp challenge rang out, followed by a shot and a
yell, then a trailing splutter of reports, then silence again. The enemy drew
off on finding everything ready for his reception. After this the little
garrison knew no repose. Attack followed attack, and seldom a night passed
without an alarm. It was evidently the object of the enemy to wear out the
defenders with constant watching. On one occasion they almost rushed the
defences, and were repulsed only at the point of the bayonet. Blaisby grew grave
as he saw the casualties increase. The suspense and frequent alarms began to
tell their tale. The men were worn out, and although they slept whenever
opportunity offered during the day, it was always with the possibility of being
awakened to repel an attack. Each night Blaisby spent upon the look-out
platform, and was frequently to be seen at dawn scanning the horizon to the
south through his field-glasses. One evening, after a more than usually spirited
attack by the enemy, Blaisby sat silent at the table, whilst the senior sub. and
the surgeon talked over the day’s work. They had been puzzled at the action of
their commander after the repulse. He had selected ten of the Gurkhas and taken
them into the "Oven," posting a sentry at the entrance and had remained there
with the junior sub. until dinner-time. The senior sub. and the surgeon were
piqued at not being confided in. The surgeon had just finished a lengthy
harangue upon the methods it was desirable to adopt in savage warfare,
ridiculing the textbooks as academic. As he concluded he raised his eyes from
their gloomy contemplation of the end of his cigar. They became fixed, his jaw
dropped. The senior sub. half-turned to see the cause. He uttered an
exclamation! At the entrance of the tent stood a grim and ghastly figure, with
rolling eyes and grinning lips. The two men stared as if bewitched at what
appeared to be a reincarnation of Beelzebub. The apparition remained motionless
save for the movement of its eyes, hideous, unearthly eyes, encircled with rings
of red and surmounted by white brows. Then there was the great red mouth and the
diabolical black horns which sprang suddenly from snowy hair. Every bone in the
dusky body was outlined in white. The two men turned almost appealingly to
Blaisby, who sat impassively watching them. "Sorry to startle you; it’s an
experiment," he said as he made a motion with his hand at which the figure
disappeared, "upon men whose minds are trained against superstition." That was
all. He rose and went out, leaving the surgeon and senior sub. speechless and
indignant. At midnight eleven ghostly figures emerged from the "Oven" and slid
away into the darkness. Shortly afterwards Blaisby mounted to the look-out
platform where he stood silent and immovable, his gaze directed eastward. *II*

Whilst Blaisby and his men were busily occupied with the defense of "Old Brock’s
Folly," the main body of the Expeditionary Force had reached the frontier. The
Brigadier appeared uncertain how to act. The officers were moody, and the men
silent, almost sullen. Orders were obeyed without alacrity, without zeal,
without cheerfulness. Two days passed without any preparations for the relief of
the "Post." At length with a rather over-done careless air the Brigadier
remarked to his Senior Colonel upon the spiritlessness of the troops after a
"victorious campaign." The Senior Colonel made an equally casual rejoinder. The
men were tired, he had frequently noticed a similar state of affairs at the end
of an expedition. There the matter had ended for the moment. Later a further
remark from the Brigadier had met with a like evasion on the part of his
subordinate. That Brigadier-General Mossop’s nerves were disordered was plainly
shown by his lack of decision. Orders were given and countermanded; elaborate
dispatches were penned, only to be destroyed an hour later. At last the Senior
Colonel was startled by a point blank request for his opinion as to the
advisability of despatching a force to relieve the post without waiting for
further supplies. A decisive, "I consider it highly expedient, sir, if not too
late," was not reassuring. For two days the Brigadier pondered over the
significant words. "If not too late." He saw the possibility of the dreaded
official reprimand. At length the order was given: a third of the force was to
retrace its steps and relieve the little garrison, "If not too late," the words
obtruded themselves upon the Brigadier’s mind and irritated him. Thus it
happened that, after days of inactivity and indecision, the Relief Force set out
under the command of the Senior Colonel. As it swung off to the brisk notes of
the bugle, spirits rose as if by magic, jokes were cracked amongst the rank and
file, the old jokes that yesterday would have fallen flat now drew a hearty
laugh. All were elated at the prospect of a brush with the enemy. This was to be
a fight to the finish. The Senior Colonel was a soldier of a different type from
the Brigadier. He had no theories, as theories are generally understood. His
dictum was to fight—and win. If there were heavy casualties, he deplored it as a
necessary feature of his profession. The men knew this—there would be hard
knocks and they thanked God for it. Shortly before sunset on the third day, the
force halted behind some rising ground about four miles south-east of the
"Post." The enemy had been located and the Senior Colonel was not the man to
wait. He had resolved to push on and risk a night attack. Half the column was to
make a detour and approach from the north-east, whilst the other half attacked
from the eastward. After a hasty meal and a short rest, the first party moved
off guided by the stars and a compass. Silently it disappeared into the
darkness. An hour later the other half set out. Chisholme, who had managed to be
included, was well ahead with the advance guard of the first column. After an
hour’s steady marching to the eastward they bore round to the north and later
swung round to the south-west. Half an hour passed and the scouts brought in
word that the enemy’s camp lay about a mile ahead, a little to the westward of
the line of march. Presently the advance guard halted to allow the main body to
come up. The order came to continue the advance "with great caution." Scarcely
were they in motion again before a point of red fire caught Chisholme’s eye,
followed by several similar lights. Wild yells broke the stillness, more lights
followed until the whole encampment was bathed in a blood-red glow. Through his
night-glasses, Chisholme saw a veritable pandemonium. Dancing forms—eerie,
horrible, devilish—moved rhythmically to and fro, each the centre of a sphere of
hellish light. Was it some nightmare of the Infernal Regions? Could he be
dreaming? He looked round. Officers and men were gazing wonder-struck. The noise
was fiendish: hoarse shouts, shrill cries, terror-stricken yells split the air.
Gradually the glow increased in volume. Wild forms were seen silhouetted sharply
against the light, rushing hither and thither in a frenzy of terror. Slowly the
strange figures approached the camp: dancing and swaying, without hurry, without
excitement. Chisholme rubbed his eyes, then looking again beheld a wild mob of
fleeing tribesmen coming straight towards him, bent only on escaping from the
furies. A few short, sharp orders rang out. A moment later the crackle of rifles
drowned the cries. A machine-gun began to stutter and spit. The terrified
tribesmen paused stunned and dropped in dozens. Firing was heard to the
southward—the others were at it also. At this moment the advance was sounded.
The main force had come up, deployed and with a yell rushed forward to the
charge. A portion of the enemy broke away to the north; but the majority stood
transfixed with terror. Some threw themselves upon the bayonets, others stood
impassively awaiting death. A few who had weapons showed fight; but were soon
cut down. A couple of rockets rose to the westward. "Thank God," muttered the
Senior Colonel, "we’re in time." The work of slaughter continued grimly,
silently: short sobbing coughs were heard as the cold steel found its mark.
Presently the recall was sounded. The men were becoming scattered and the Senior
Colonel was troubled about those queer figures still to be seen gathered round
the fire. Collecting a few men together, he advanced. As he approached, the
forms started whirling and dancing, the coloured fires burst out again and the
astonished officer saw eleven careering forms, skeletons apparently, with white
hair and black horns. "Well, I’m damned!" he gasped. "And Hell within jumping
distance," muttered a voice. "Who goes there?" rang out the challenge apparently
from the tallest devil. "Friend," was the reply. "Advance and give the
countersign." "Who the devil are you?" burst out the Senior Colonel. "Servants
of Her Britannic Majesty, Queen Victoria." With shouts and laughter officers and
men alike rushed forward, and there was a babel of congratulatory voices. *III*

Dawn was breaking when Major Blaisby finished his account of what had happened
during those four eventful weeks. "It was Chisholme’s idea," he concluded, "that
I should ask the Brigadier for the fireworks in order to give his system an
extended trial." He did not add that the object of the request was to placate
his superior, in order to obtain the maxim. When the light became stronger, the
Senior Colonel examined the defences, and complimented Blaisby in his short,
gruff manner. "You’ve made a fine show, Blaisby," he said in conclusion, "A
damned sight finer show than I should have made." Chisholme had his opportunity
later, when _The Morning Independent_ printed a series of brilliantly written
articles upon the campaign and its ending, and although more moderate in tone
than many expected, Brigadier General Mossop saw in those articles the
explanation of his receiving no official mark of approval for the way in which
he had conducted the —— Punitive Expedition. "An’ where did you come in, sir?"
enquired Bindle of the General, when he had finished "leading the applause" with
his mallet. "I?" said the General, "What do you mean?" "Well, sir, I wondered if
by any chance it was you wot mixed the fireworks so as they all went off wrong."
The General laughed. Sallie said the General was at his best when a laugh caused
his teeth to flash white against the surrounding tan. "A shrewd guess, by jove,"
he exclaimed, "Yes, it was I who mixed the fireworks." "And what would you do
sir now if a sub., under your command, were to do the same," enquired the Boy
languidly. "Confound you sir, if it were you I’d have you shot," he shouted.
Somehow the General seemed always to shout at the Boy. "No, you wouldn’t,
General," said Sallie, giving the poor old boy a sidelong glance that
temporarily threw him off his balance. "And why, may I ask?" "Because I should
ask you to let him off." "Then," said the General with decision, "_I_ should
deserve to be shot. "An’ is that Major alive now, sir?" queried Bindle. "Who,
Blaisby? Yes," replied the General; "but that’s not his name. If I were to tell
you who he is and what he is doing to-day, you’d understand the awful risk the
country ran through the Commander-in-Chief of India giving commands to rabbits
instead of soldiers." "I’m glad he got through," said Sallie meditatively. "You
can never keep a good man back," remarked the General in that modified tone of
voice he always adopted when speaking to Sallie. "Wot’s ’e goin’ to do if ’e’s
got various veins in ’is legs, I wonder?" I heard Bindle mutter as he knocked
the ashes out of his pipe. *CHAPTER XII*

*THE MATER*

Except when "roasting" Angell Herald, the Boy is not much given to speech.
Humped up in the easiest chair available, he will sit apparently absorbed in the
contemplation of his well-polished finger-nails, or preoccupied with the
shapeliness of his shoes and the silkiness of his socks; yet his mind is keenly
alert, as some of us occasionally discover to our cost. A sudden laugh from
those about him will demonstrate that the Boy is awake and has scored a point,
more often than not at Angell Herald’s expense. There is something restful and
refreshing in the fugitive smile that seems to flicker across the Boy’s face
when, by accident, you catch his eye. He is one of those intensely lovable and
sympathetic beings who seem constitutionally incapable of making enemies. As
mischievous as a puppy, he would regard it as an "awful rag" to hide a man’s
trousers when he is late for parade. Then he would be "most frightfully sorry"
afterwards—and really mean it. We all became much attached to him, and looked
forward with concern to the time when he would be drafted out to the front
again. After the Loos battle he had been attached to the depot of the Westshires
at Wimbledon. From Windover we learned a great deal about the Boy, who seemed
possessed of one unassailable conviction and one dominating weakness. The
conviction was that he was "a most awful ass" and "rather a rotter": the
weakness was "the Mater." He seldom spoke of her, but when he did a softness
would creep into his voice, and his eyes would lose their customary look of
amused indolence. Mrs. Summers was something of an invalid, and whenever he
could the Boy would spend hours in wheeling her bath-chair about Kensington
Gardens and Hyde Park, or sitting with her at home playing "Patience." This he
would do, not from a sense of duty; but because of the pleasure it gave him. He
seemed to go through life looking for things that would interest or amuse "the
Mater." From France he sent a stream of things, from aluminium rings to a German
machine-gun. There had been some trouble with the Authorities over the machine-
gun, which had been put on board a French train and the carriage heavily
prepaid. The thing had been held up and enquiries instituted, which had resulted
in the Boy paying a visit to the orderly-room to explain to his C.O. what he
meant by trying to send Government property to S. Kensington. "But, sir, we took
it, and the men didn’t want it," the Boy explained ingenuously. "Boy," said the
Colonel, "In war there is only one thing personal to the soldier, and that is
his identity disc." "I’m most awfully sorry, sir," said the Boy with heightened
colour. "Now look here Boy," said the Colonel, "If by chance you happen to
capture a battery of howitzers, I must beg of you for the honour of the regiment
not to send them home. Look at that!" He indicated a sheaf of official-looking
papers lying on the table before him. Between Whitehall and G.H.Q. an almost
hysterical exchange of official memoranda had taken place. "These are the
results of your trying to send a German machine-gun to your mother," and in
spite of himself the Colonel’s eyes smiled, and the Boy saluted and withdrew.
There the incident had ended, that is officially; but out of it, however, grew a
tradition. Whenever the 8th Westshires captured anything particularly unwieldy,
the standing joke among the men was, "Better post it to the Kid’s mother." One
day an enormously fat German prisoner was marched up to the Field Post Office
labelled for the Boy’s mother. The Bosche, a good-humoured fellow, appeared to
enter heartily into the joke, not so the post-office orderly, who threatened to
report the post-corporal who had tendered the "packet." The morning following
the taking of the B——n Farm after a desperate fight, the Senior Major, then in
command, was surprised to see an enormous piece of cardboard fashioned in the
shape of a label, attached to the wall. addressed

+−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−+     |  MRS. SOMERS,                 |     |
860, Prince's Gate,      |     |            S. Kensington,     |     |
London, S.W. |     |    With love                  |     |  from the Kid. |
+−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−+

Between men of the Westshires and their officers there was complete
understanding, and the Senior Major had smiled back at the grinning faces that
seemed to spring up all round him. Unfortunately the Divisional Commander, a
martinet of the old school who could not assimilate the spirit of the new
armies, had tactlessly chosen that afternoon on which to inspect the captured
position. He had gazed fiercely at the label, demanding what the devil it meant,
and without waiting for a reply, had expressed himself in unequivocal terms upon
"damned buffoonery" and "keeping the men in hand." Finally he had strutted off,
his cheeks puffed out with indignation. That occurred after the Boy’s return to
London. Dick Little possessed an enormous bible with Gustave Doré’s
illustrations, a strangely incongruous thing for him to own. One evening the Boy
dug it out from the chaos of volumes that Dick Little calls his "library." For
some time he turned over the leaves industriously. I was puzzled to account for
his interest in Doré’s impossible heights and unthinkable depths. That night he
staggered off with the Doré’s anticipations of eternity under his arm, which he
had borrowed from Dick Little. Bindle watched him in obvious surprise. "’Andy
little thing to read when yer strap-’angin’ in a toobe," he remarked drily.
"It’s a bible," I explained. "An’ wot’s Young ’Indenburg want with a bible?"
enquired Bindle in surprise. "You’ve probably awakened in his young mind a
thirst for theology," remarked Dare, who had joined us. But Bindle did not
smile. He was clearly puzzled. On the following Sunday, Bindle tackled the Boy
on the subject. "Why jer go orf wi’ that little pocket bible, sir?" he enquired.
The Boy flushed. "I thought the Mater would like to see it," was the response,
and Bindle began to talk about pigeons as if he had not heard. We had often
asked Windover to describe the Boy’s mother; but he had always put us off,
saying that he could never describe anybody, except the Kaiser, and King Edward
had done that before him. *

* Windover was evidently referring to King Edward’s remark, "The fellow is not a
gentleman." Sallie was greatly interested in the Boy’s devotion to his mother,
and she lost no opportunity of drawing him out. At first he was shy and
uncommunicative; but when Sallie is set upon extracting anything from a man, S.
Anthony himself would have to capitulate. From the scraps of conversation I
overheard, I came to picture a son full of tender solicitude and awkward
devotion for a little white-haired lady with a beautiful expression, a gentle
voice and a smile that she would leave behind as a legacy to her son. I could
see the old lady’s pride at the sight of the red and blue ribbon on the Boy’s
tunic, at the letter his C.O. had written to the "Old Dad," her thankfulness at
his safe return. We found ourselves wanting to meet this little white-haired old
lady with the smile of sunshine, and hear her welcome us in a gentle, but rather
tired voice. She would be interested in the Night Club, concerned if we did not
eat of her dainty scones, or would it be shortbread, anxious that we make a long
call. There would be glances of meaning and affection exchanged between her and
the Boy, which we would strive not to intercept, and feel self-conscious should
we by chance do so. Then she would ask us to come again, saying how glad she
always was to see her boy’s friends. During the long talks that Sallie had with
the Boy, Bindle used to fidget aimlessly about, the picture of discontent. He
always became a little restive if Sallie showed too great an interest in the
conversation of any man but himself. It was Bindle in a new guise. One evening
the Boy, who arrived late, was greeted by Bindle with,

"’Ullo! sir, you doin’ the Romeo stunt? as Mr. Angell ’Erald would say." "The
what, J.B.?" enquired the Boy innocently. "I see you last Thursday at South Ken.
with a bowkay as if you was goin’ to a weddin’. ’Ooo’s yer lady friend, Mr.
’Indenburg?" The Boy flushed scarlet. "Mr. Bindle," said Sallie severely, who
has intuitions, "I’m cross with you." "Wi’ me, miss?" Bindle enquired in
concerned surprise. "Wot ’ave I done?" "It’s all right," broke in the Boy. "The
flowers were for the Mater." Bindle became strangely silent, for some time
afterwards. Later he said to me—

"’E seems fond of ’is mother." "Who?" I enquired. "Young ’Indenburg. I’m sorry
for wot I said." Then he added meditatively. "If I ’ad a kid I’d like ’im to
grow up like ’im," and Bindle jerked his thumb in the direction of where the Boy
stood listening to the General’s views upon army discipline. "Mr. Bindle," said
Sallie who came up at that moment, having detached herself from Angell Herald’s
saloon-bar civilities, "I’m going to see Mrs. Somers on Wednesday and I shall
tell her about your remark. _I_ think he’s a dear." "I’m sorry, miss," said
Bindle with genuine contrition. "She must be a very wonderful and beautiful old
lady to inspire such devotion." "Oo, miss?" "The Boy’s mother," I murmured. "I’d
like to see ’er," said Bindle seriously, and we knew he meant it. The Sunday
following I asked Sallie about her visit to the Boy’s mother, and I was struck
at the strangeness of her manner. It was obvious that she did not wish to talk
about it. I made several attempts, Bindle also tried; but with equal unsuccess.
If Sallie is determined not to talk about a thing, nothing will drag it out of
her, and seeing that she had made up her mind I accordingly desisted. Bindle saw
for himself that it would be better to let the matter drop. "Funny thing ’er not
wantin’ to say anythink about it," he muttered. We were both greatly puzzled to
account for Sallie’s strange behaviour. I noticed that her eyes were often on
the Boy, and in them was an expression that I found baffling. Sometimes I
thought it was pity, at others tenderness. It was two weeks later that the
mystery was solved. I had invited Bindle to tea in Kensington Gardens, and we
had sat rather late bestowing the caterer’s cake and biscuits upon birds and
gamins. In this Bindle took great delight. The game was to convey a piece of
cake, or a biscuit, to a young urchin without being caught in the act by a keen-
eyed waitress. "When she catches yer it’s like bein’ pinched wi’ yer ’and in a
bishop’s pocket," explained Bindle, which was rather a good description. After
tea we walked slowly through the Gardens. Suddenly Bindle clutched my arm.
"Look, sir! Look!" he cried excitably, pointing to a path that led off at right
angles from the walk we were following. "It’s Young ’Indenburg." I saw
approaching us the Boy, pushing a bath-chair, the occupant of which was hidden
by a black lace sunshade. Instinctively Bindle and I turned down the path, for
we knew that in that bath-chair was the beautiful old lady who had given to us
the Boy. Suddenly the Boy looked up and saw us. He stooped down and said
something to the occupant of the bath-chair. A second later the position of the
black sunshade was altered and—several things seemed to happen all at once. The
Boy stopped, came round to the front of the bath-chair and presented us, a
strange tenderness alike in his voice and expression as he did so, Bindle
dropped his stick and I received a shock. Where was the beautiful, white-haired
old lady, her smiling eyes, the gentle lovable mouth——? I shuddered
involuntarily, and after a few minutes’ exchange of pleasantries, during which I
behaved like a schoolboy and Bindle was absolutely dumb, I pleaded a pressing
engagement and we made our adieux. For some minutes we walked on in silence. I
seemed to see nothing but that pinched and peevish face, to hear nothing but the
querulous, complaining voice. So that was the Boy’s mother. I turned to Bindle,
curious to see the effect upon him. I had never before seen him look so serious.
"I’m glad I can’t remember my mother," he said, and that seemed to end the
matter. We never referred to it again. Somehow it would have seemed disloyal to
the Boy. Later in the evening, when the Night Club was in session, the Boy said
to me,

"I’m awfully glad you saw us to-day. I wanted you and J.B. to meet the Mater."
There was on his face the same expression and in his voice the same softness I
had noticed in the afternoon. I caught Sallie’s eye, and I remembered her
reticence. "Then he must get it from the Old Dad after all," I murmured, and
Sallie nodded and passed on to a group at the other end of the room. *CHAPTER
XIII*

*THE ROMANCE OF A HORSEWHIPPING*

The more I saw of Jocelyn Dare the more I got to like him. Beneath the
superficialities of the poseur there was a nature that seemed oddly out of
keeping with the twentieth century. He was intended for the days of chivalry and
the clashing of spear against breast-plate. To his love of children I have
already referred, and with animals he was equally gentle. I once saw him in
Piccadilly, immaculately dressed as usual, with his arms round the neck of a
bus-horse that had fallen and was in danger of being strangled by the collar.
Dare, Sallie, and Bindle became great friends, and would talk "animals" by the
hour together. Bindle would go further than the others, and would discourse with
affectionate regret of the "special sort o’ performin’ fleas" he had once kept.
At first Sallie would shrink from these references; but when she saw that Bindle
had been genuinely attached to the little creatures, she braced herself up to
their occasional entry into the conversation. "Have you noticed," Angell Herald
once whispered to me, "how Bindle’s fleas seem to annoy Miss Carruthers?" The
whisper was loud and came during one of those unaccountable hushes in the
general talk. In consequence everybody heard. It was an awkward moment, and
Angell Herald became the colour of a beetroot. It was Bindle who saved the
situation by saying with regret in his voice: "I lost ’em more’n a year ago, so
that can’t be." Dare would often drop in upon me for half an hour’s chat. If I
were too busy to talk, he would curl himself up in my arm-chair and become as
silent as a bird. One night he was sitting thus when I aroused him from his
reverie by banging a stamp on an envelope with an air of finality that told him
work was over for that night. "Finished?" he queried with a smile. I nodded and
lit a cigarette. I was feeling brain-weary and Dare, with that ready sympathy of
his which is almost feminine, seemed instinctively to understand that I required
my thoughts diverting from the day’s work. "Ever horsewhip a man?" he enquired
languidly as he reached for another cigarette. "No," I replied, scenting a
story. "Well, don’t," was the reply. Dare then proceeded to tell me the story of
the one and only horsewhipping in which he had participated. The story came as a
godsend, for I had nothing for the next meeting of the Night Club. *I*

"If you intended to horsewhip a man, Walters, how would you begin?" enquired
Jocelyn Dare of his man one morning at breakfast. Without so much as the
fraction of a second’s hesitation Walters placed the omelette before his master,
lifted the cover, gave a comprehensive glance at the table to see that nothing
was lacking, then in the most natural manner in the world replied, "I should buy
a whip, sir." That was Walters all over. He is as incapable of surprise as water
of compression. He is practical to his finger-tips, that is what makes him the
most excellent of servants. I have met Walters and I use him when Peake, my own
man, evinces the least tendency to slackness. If Dare were to take home an emu
or an octopus as a household pet, Walters would, as a matter of course, ring up
the Zoological Gardens and enquire as to the most desirable aliment for
sustaining life in their respective bodies. To Dare Walters is something between
an inspiration and a habit. "Stop!" cried Dare, as Walters was about to leave
the room. "This is a matter of some importance and cannot be so lightly
dismissed." Walters returned to the table, readjusted the toast-rack at its
proper angle, and replaced the cover on what remained of the omelette. One of
Walters’ most remarkable qualities is that, no matter how suddenly he may be
approached upon a subject, or how bizarre the subject itself, his reply is
always that of a man who has just been occupied in a careful and deliberate
analysis of the matter in question from its every conceivable aspect. "Well,
having bought the whip," Dare queried as he took another piece of toast, "how
would you then proceed if you wanted to horsewhip a man?" "I should never want
to horsewhip anyone, sir. No one ever does," was the unexpected reply. Dare
looked up at Walters’ expressionless face. "But," said Dare, "I have just told
you that I want to horsewhip someone. Will you have it that I am the only man
who has ever wanted to horsewhip another?" "Begging your pardon, sir," said
Walters. "But you do not really want to horsewhip anyone." Dare put down his
fork and stared at Walters in interested surprise. After a careful examination
of his servant’s features he remarked, "I have never disguised from you,
Walters, my admiration for your capacity of transmuting eggs into omelettes,
your unerring taste in neckwear, your inspiration in trouserings, your knowledge
of Burke and your attainments as a compendium of knowledge upon the subtleties
of etiquette; but I think you might permit me to know my own feelings in the
matter of horsewhipping." "I beg your pardon, sir," Walters’ tone was
deferential but firm. "I was with Lord Beaulover when her Ladyship eloped with
Mr. Jameson. His Lordship was quite upset about it." "But what has this got to
do with horsewhipping?" questioned Dare. "I was coming to that, sir," replied
Walters evenly. "His Lordship was so kind as to ask my opinion as to what he
should do. His Lordship was always very kind in consulting me upon his private
affairs." "And what did you advise?" queried Dare. "I told him that the correct
thing would be to horsewhip Mr. Jameson. His Lordship protested that he was not
angry with Mr. Jameson, but as a matter of fact deeply indebted to him. We were
speaking in strict confidence, I should mention, sir." "Of course," said Dare.
"Go on, Walters." "Well, sir, his Lordship eventually agreed that his duty to
Society demanded physical violence. He was always most punctilious in——"

"But I thought it was young Jameson who whipped Lord Beaulover," broke in Dare.
"That is so, sir," replied Walters, "But his Lordship did not on this occasion
see the force of my arguments that he should practise beforehand. He was
confined to his bed for a week and suffered considerable pain. I remember him
saying to me:

"’Walters, never again.’

"’No, my Lord,’ I replied. "’I mean,’ continued his Lordship, ’I’ll never go
against your advice again, Walters, never!’

"And he never did, sir." "Is that all you have to say upon the ethics of
horsewhipping, Walters?" Dare enquired as he proceeded to enjoy the omelette au
jambon, in the making of which Walters is an adept. "It would be advisable to
make careful preparation, sir," was Walters’ matter-of-fact reply. "There was
the mishap of his Lordship." "Yes," Dare mused as he poured out another cup of
coffee; "there’s always that danger. Life is crammed with anti-climax." "Yes,
sir!" "How would you go to work, Walters?" Dare questioned. Without a moment’s
hesitation Walters replied, "I do not know, sir, whether you have noticed that
even battles now-a-days have to be rehearsed." "Ah!" broke in Dare, "you advise
a répétition générale." "The chief difficulty, sir," continued Walters, "is to
get a good grip of your man. May I ask, sir, who it is you intend to horsewhip?"
Dare looked quickly up at Walters. There was no curiosity in his face, he
evidently required the information for the purpose of reaching his conclusions.
"Mr. Standish," Dare replied, watching Walters narrowly to see if he showed
surprise. Standish and his wife were at that time Dare’s most intimate friends,
and they were constantly at his flat and Dare at theirs. Walters did not move a
muscle. "Mr. Standish has a very thick neck, sir," he remarked, "that makes it
more difficult." Dare put down the coffee cup he was just raising to his lips
and stared at Walters. "What on earth has that to do with it?" he exclaimed. "It
is more difficult to get a good grip of a man with a thick neck, sir, than of
one with a thin neck. Fortunately I have a thick neck," he added imperturbably.
Walters has always been a great joy to Dare; but there are times when he is also
something of a trial. Dare suggested that he should explain himself, which he
proceeded to do. According to Walters, rehearsal is the great educator. If he
were asked his advice as to how to run away with another man’s wife, he would
insinuate that there must be a sort of dress-rehearsal. His creed is that to a
man of the world nothing must appear as a novelty. Breeding, he would define as
the faculty of doing anything and everything as if to the action accustomed. On
the matter of horsewhipping, Dare learned much during the next ten minutes, and
by the time he had finished his breakfast he found himself in full possession of
all the necessary information as to how to horsewhip a man. The thickness of his
own neck, Walters appeared to regard as the special provision of providence that
his master might practise upon him. Dare protested that it would hurt, and
Walters countered with a reference to the pile of old copies of _The Times_
awaiting a call from the Boy Scouts. With these he would pad himself and
instruct Dare in how, when and where to horsewhip a fellow being. But for
Walters, Dare confesses, he would have made a sorry mess of that whipping. The
whip seemed to get entangled in everything. It brought down pictures, lifted
chairs, demolished an electric light bracket, and uprooted a fern. In short it
seemed bewitched. Dare could get it anywhere but upon Walters’ person. When
somewhat more practised, Dare brought off a glorious cut upon Walters’ right
leg, which set him hopping about the room in silent agony. Greatly concerned
Dare apologised profusely. "It was my own fault, sir," was Walters’ reply as he
proceeded to bind a small mat round each leg. "I omitted all protection below
the knee." After a week’s incessant practice upon Walters’ long-suffering body
and patient spirit, Dare was given to understand that he might regard himself as
having successfully passed out of his noviciate. When Dare confided to Jack
Carruthers what he intended to do, Carruthers burst out with—

"Good heavens! Why, Standish is your best pal and his wife——"

"Had better be left out of the picture as far as you’re concerned, old man," had
been the reply. "The modern habit of linking thought to speech irritates me
intensely: it shows a deplorable lack of half tones." Carruthers apologised.
"But why do you want to whip Millie Standish’s husband?" Carruthers demanded,
pulling vigorously at his pipe, a trick of his when excited. According to Dare,
Carruthers is sometimes hopelessly English, not in his ideas; but in his method
of expressing them—his ideas themselves are Continental. Dare told him that by
saying Millie Standish’s husband, instead of Standish, he implied that he, Dare,
was in love with another man’s wife. Carruthers had blurted out that of course
he was, everybody knew it. Dare pointed out that he had got mixed in his tenses.
To _be_ in love with a married woman is apt to compromise her: to _have been_ in
love with her, merely adds to her interest and importance in the eyes of her
contemporaries. That is Dare all over. He would stop his own funeral service to
point a moral, or launch an epigram. Standish and Dare had been close friends
until Standish fell insanely in love with the young woman who dispensed "tonics"
in the saloon-bar of "The Belted Earl." Standish was a bizarre creature at
times, and, to use Dare’s own words, "what must the braying jackass do but
endeavour to cultivate Fay’s (that was his inamorata’s classic name) mind, which
existed nowhere outside the radius of his own mystical imagination." On her
nights out he took her to ballad concerts, when her soul yearned for the
Pictures; and to University extension lectures, when her whole being craved for
the Oxford. When she complained of the long hours and the "sinking" she felt
between meals, he advised her to eat raisins, and descanted sagely upon the
sustaining properties of sugar. No one will ever know how he got acquainted with
her, for drink made him either sick or silly. However, every evening between six
and seven Standish ran into "The Belted Earl" on his way home, consumed a small
lemonade, and handed Fay her morrow’s ration of raisins. He confided the whole
story to Dare, he was bursting with it. Dare gave him sage counsel built up upon
the foundation of secrecy, but instinctively he knew that it was impossible with
a man like Standish. One night Standish insisted upon Dare accompanying him into
the saloon-bar of "The Belted Earl" where he was formally introduced to what
Dare described as "a big-busted creature, with a head like a blonde horse and
teeth suggestive of a dentist’s show-case." Fay’s conversation seemed to consist
mainly of three phrases, which are given in the order of the frequency with
which they escaped her

(1) Oh! go on, do! (2) I’m surprised at you! (3) Aren’t you sarcastic! Standish
strove to be light in his talk, possibly with the object of matching his
beloved’s hair; but, like that peroxide-exotic, his thoughts were rooted in
darker foundations. As they left the place Standish enquired eagerly—

"What do you think of her?" Dare became deliberately mixed over the pronoun, and
replied with a very direct description of what he thought of Standish. He told
him that he was confusing his conception of the soul with Fay’s conviction of
the body. He scoffed at the concerts and lectures. He pointed out that the
politic Fay suffered them because she had imagination. "You are endeavouring to
combine the instincts of a lothario with the soul of a calvinist," Dare had said
in conclusion. The two men parted with their friendship considerably shaken.
Dare saw no particular objection to Standish making an ass of himself over any
girl he chose; but he could not digest the missionary spirit in which Standish
chose to view the whole adventure. At last Standish went a step too far and told
his wife all about it, requesting her to ask the unspeakable Fay to call. This
platonic request was very naturally refused, and Standish made a fool of
himself, said that Fay was one of Nature’s ladies, and, given the right clothes
and environment, she would be an astonishing success. Dare learned the story
from both of them, and told Standish that such bloods as he were wanted in
sparsely populated colonies. The upshot was a breach between the two. Millie
Standish took it all rather badly. She talked about leaving her husband, and
there was a quiet determined look in her eyes that Dare did not like: it seemed
to suggest the possibility of leaving the world as well. Dare talked about
brain-storm and other alien things, and patched things up for the time being. At
last Dare determined that shock tactics were necessary to bring Standish to his
senses, and here his chivalry asserted itself. Millie Standish had no brother,
therefore Dare felt it incumbent upon him to assume the fraternal responsibility
of correcting Standish’s rather Eastern views of life. II

Having become thoroughly practised, Dare waited outside Standish’s office one
morning and administered the necessary punishment. The affair was an astounding
success. Never probably in the history of horse-whipping had punishment been so
admirably and skilfully administered. Standish’s clerks lined the windows and
had the time of their lives. They dared not cheer; but it was obvious on which
side were their sympathies. "Funny sensation whipping a man," remarked Dare,
meditatively when he told the story, "It’s so devilish difficult to hit him and
avoid your own legs, even when you’ve had a Walters to practise on." The next
day Dare received a note from Mrs. Standish, which made it clear that so far
from appreciating his chivalry, she was engaged in mourning over her stricken
lord, moistening his poultices with her tears. "Queer things, women," said Dare;
"chivalry is as dead as Queen Anne." Later in the day Dare was served with a
summons for assault and battery. The affair was assuming an aspect which caused
him considerable anxiety. If the matter were aired in the police-court, then the
whole story would come out, Millie Standish would be humiliated and Standish
himself would be made utterly ridiculous. Dare decided to consult old John
Brissett, his solicitor, who immediately got into touch with Standish’s
solicitor and told him that if the matter went into court he should supoena Fay.
The result was that the lion became as a lamb. Brissett made it quite clear to
Standish’s solicitor, who in turn made it clear to Standish, that his
respectable intentions would be entirely misunderstood. The upshot of it was
that the summons was withdrawn. "And was that the end?" I queried of Dare. "The
end?" he cried. "Good God, no! Three days later Millie Standish cut me dead at
the Latimer’s reception. Women are oblivious to chivalry as I said before." "So
all was well," I said. "All was not well, my dear fellow," was Dare’s reply, as
he gazed up at the ceiling. "All was peculiarly and damnably ill. Horsewhipping
is a luxury far beyond my means," and he started blowing rings. "But the
summons——"

"Was withdrawn, true; but Fay was still alive alas! and with every ’tonic’ she
dispensed in the saloon-bar of ’The Belted Earl’ she told of the noble way in
which I had whipped Standish for her sake. That was Millie’s doing. I could
swear to it, she made Standish tell Fay that I did it because I was jealous of
him and—oh, it was hell and chaos and forty publishers all rolled into one."
"But Fay?" I queried. "What of her?" "She sent me perfumed notes (such vile
perfume too) by the potman or chucker-out every other hour. Notes of adoration
and of gratitude, in which the terms ’hero,’ ’noble,’ ’chivalrous,’ with two
v’s, occurred at sickening intervals. I had to leave London for nearly a month,
and it was at a time when I was busily engaged in a dispute with my publisher
which necessitated my presence in town. "Alas!" he concluded. "The tragedy of
life is that it is always the wrong woman who appreciates a man’s nobility." "I
never got no woman to appreciate my nobility wrong _or_ right, sir," said
Bindle, at the conclusion of the story. "Well, you’re a lucky man, J.B.," said
Dare. "An old fogey who lived some three thousand years ago said one of the
disadvantages of matrimony was that your wife insisted on taking her meals with
you." "Did ’e really, sir?" said Bindle, greatly interested. ’"I should a’ like
to ’ave known ’im." "Mr. Bindle," said Sallie, "I am afraid you are a
misogynist." "I ’ope not, miss," said Bindle anxiously. "Well you must remember
that every time you say things against women you are saying something against
me, because I am a woman." "Lord, miss, don’t say that," said Bindle half rising
from his chair. "I never thinks o’ you as a woman. You seem to be a sort of——"
and he paused. "A sort of what?" enquired Sallie. "Well, miss, I don’t ’ardly
like to say." "Come on, speak up, J.B.," said Dick Little, "don’t be a coward.
We’ll see that Miss Carruthers doesn’t hurt you." "You must finish your
sentence, I insist," said Sallie. "Well, miss, I was goin’ to say you always
seems more like a mate than a woman." That is one of the few occasions I have
seen Sallie blush. Dick Little’s attentions, my devotion, Angell Herald’s
elaborate manners, the General’s gallantry; none of them had succeeded in
bringing to Sallie’s face the look of pleasure that Bindle’s simple remark
produced. "Thank you, Mr. Bindle, very much indeed," she said. "But why?" asked
Windover reverting to the horsewhipping affair, "why should Mrs. Standish——"

"I expected," said Dare, "that some ass——"

"Psychologist," suggested Windover. "The same thing, old man," was the retort.
"I expected that some psychological ass would ask why Millie Standish should
behave so oddly. I will tell you. It transpired later that she had evolved a
cure of her own. "She had after all invited Fay to her flat one evening, where
she met the smartest women and the cleverest men that Millie could collect. I
was not included," he added. "Fay had turned up in a pale blue satin blouse, a
black skirt and white boots. She had hung herself with every ounce of metal she
possessed and jingled like a cavalry charger. All the women were very nice to
her, tried to draw her out; but the men just stared, first at her and then at
each other. It was Millie’s hour, and when Standish had put Fay into a taxi, he
had wept his repentance, been taken back to Millie’s heart, and all was at
peace." "So your whipping came as an anti-climax," said Windover. "Exactly," was
Dare’s response. "Alas!" remarked Windover, "A man can but do his best and a
woman her worst." *CHAPTER XIV*

*GINGER VISITS THE NIGHT CLUB*

Bindle had on more than one occasion been urged to bring Ginger to the Night
Club; but Ginger finds himself "not ’oldin’ wiv" so many things in life, that he
is very difficult to approach. One evening, however, Bindle entered with the
khaki-clad Ginger. Awkward and self-conscious, Ginger strove to disguise his
nervousness under the mantle of his habitual gloom. "We been walkin’ in the
Park," Bindle announced. "I been quite worried about poor old Ging. Sunday
evenin’ in the Park ain’t no place for a young chap like ’im. It puts wrong
ideas into ’is ’ead." Ginger grumbled something in his throat and with one hand
took the cigar Dick Little offered whilst with the other he grasped the glass of
beer that Windover had poured out for him. "Funny place Hyde Park on a Sunday
evenin’," Bindle remarked conversationally to Sallie; "but it’s a rare
responsibility with a chap like Ginger." "Now Mr. Bindle," she smiled, "if you
tease him I shall be cross." "Me tease, miss, you must be mixin’ me up wi’ Mr.
’Erald." "Get along with, the yarn, J.B., tell us about the Park," urged
Carruthers, who liked nothing better than to get Bindle going. "You should ’ear
wot them Australian boys says about the Daylight Bill," he continued after a
pause. "The Daylight Bill?" queried Angell Herald. "Well, you see, sir, its like
this. Them poor chaps says that they gets a gal, and then, as soon as it gets
dark, it’s time for ’er to go ’ome." "But why——?" began Angell Herald. "Oh, you
work it out by the square root of the primitive instinct," said Dick Little,
which left Angell Herald exactly where he was before. "They’re an ’ot lot, them
Australians," Bindle proceeded. "Ginger says they go off with all the gals, an’
’e don’t get a chance. Aint that so, ole sport?" he demanded turning to Ginger.
"I don’t ’old wiv women," grumbled Ginger. "Anyway the Kangaroos don’t give yer
much chance of ’oldin’ ’em. Fine chaps they looks too. I don’t blame the gals,"
Bindle added. "Funny things gals," continued Bindle, "they’d chuck a angel for
an Australian. ’Earty’s got a gal to ’elp in the shop. She’s a pretty bit too,
yer can always trust ’Earty in little things like that. Well, she’s nuts on
Australians. Poor Martha gets quite worried about it. Martha’s ’Earty’s missis,"
he explained, "A rare lot o’ trouble she’s ’ad with Jenny. First of all the gal
took up wi’ the milkman, wots got an ’eart and can’t get into khaki. Then she
chucks ’im an’ starts with Australians; an’ ’e was a fivepenny milkman too, an’
now ’e can’t go near the ’Earty’s ’ouse without it ’urtin’ ’im, so poor ole
Martha is a penny down on ’er milk." Bindle paused and proceeded to pull at his
pipe meditatively. "Get ahead, man," cried Dare impatiently. "What happened to
the fickle Jenny?" "Well," continued Bindle, "she seemed to get a new Australian
every night out, an’ poor ole Milkcans is lookin’ round for another bit o’
skirt." "Know this thou lov’st amiss and to love true,     Thou must begin again
and love anew,"

quoted Dare. "One day Martha asks Jenny why she’s always out with Australians
instead of our chaps. She looks down, shuffles ’er feet, nibbles the corner of
’er apron. At last she says, ’Oh, mum, it’s the way they ’olds yer.’

"Yes," continued Bindle, "they’re fine chaps them Australians, an’ they can
fight too." After a pause he continued: "Ole Spotty can’t stand ’em, though.
Spotty’s got somethink wrong with ’is lungs and the doctor says to ’im, ’Spotty
ole card, it’s outdoors or underground. The choice is with you.’

"So instead o’ becomin’ a member o’ parliament, Spotty goes round takin’ pennies
for lettin’ people sit down on the chairs in the Park. It means fourpence
’alfpenny an ’our now an’ rheumatism later. "Them Australians can’t understand
bein’ asked a penny to sit down, and sometimes they refuses to pay, thinking
it’s a do. It’s a shame not to let ’em sit down for nothink, after they come all
them miles to fight. So Spotty soon learns to sort of overlook ’em. "One day an
inspector reports ’im to the guv’nor, an’ ’e was ’auled up an’ asked to tell all
about it. ’E did, also ’ow one of ’em offered to fight ’im for the penny.
Spotty’s a slip of a thing like a war sausage. "’I took up this ’ere job,’ says
Spotty, ’to get well, not as a short cut to the ’orspital,’ and he offered to
resign; but they’re short o’ men an’ Spotty is still takin’ pennies, when ’e can
get ’em without scrappin’. "Lord, the things Spotty’s told me about Hyde Park.
It ain’t no place for me. I told Mrs. B. one night, leastwise I told ’er some,
an’ she says, ’The King ought to stop it.’"  Bindle grinned. "I can see ’im
goin’ round a-stoppin’ it by ’avin’ all the chairs put two yards apart, an’
bein’ late for ’is supper." "Are you a royalist, J.B.?" enquired Windover
languidly. "A wot, sir?" enquired Bindle. "Do you believe in kings?" "I believe
in our King." There was decision in Bindle’s voice. "’E’s a sport, same as ’is
father was. I’m sick of all this talk about a republic." Disgust was clearly
expressed upon Bindle’s face and in his voice. "Down at the yard they’re always
jawin’ about the revolution wot’s comin’." "I don’t ’old wiv kings," broke in
Ginger. "There’s goin’ to be a revolution." "’Ullo Ging, you woke up? Well ole
son, wot’s wrong wi’ George Five?" "Look wot ’e corsts, an’ you an’ me ’as to
pay, an’ everything goin’ up like ’ell." "’Ush, Ginger, ’ush, there’s a lady
’ere." Ginger looked awkwardly at Sallie, who smiled her reassurance. "’I
s’pose, Ginger, yer thinks you’re goin’ to get a republic with a pound o’ tea,"
said Bindle good-humouredly. "There’s goin’ to be a revolution," persisted
Ginger doggedly. Ginger logic is repetition. "After the war," he added. "An’ wot
jer goin’ to revolute about?" enquired Bindle, gazing at Ginger’s face, which
Windover has described as "freckled with stupidity." For a few minutes Ginger
was silent, thinking laboriously. "Look at the price of beer?" he at length
challenged with inspiration. "Well, Ging, ain’t you an ole ’uggins. ’Jer think
you’ll get cheap beer if yer makes George and Mary ’op it? Not you, ole son. Wot
you’ll most likely get is no beer at all, same as in America." "That’s a lie!"
We were all startled at the anger in Ginger’s voice, as he flashed a sullen
challenge round the room. "Don’t get ’uffy, ole sport. Wot’s a lie?" enquired
Bindle, unmoved by Ginger’s outburst. "That they ain’t got no beer in America,"
snarled Ginger. "J.B. is quite right," murmured Windover soothingly. "In some
States there’s no drink of any sort." Ginger gazed from one to the other,
bewilderment and alarm stamped upon his face. "Well I’m——" began Ginger.
"Surprised," broke in Bindle. "O’ course you are. Fancy bein’ in the army
without anythink to wash it down. "Now, Ginger," said Bindle after a pause,
"tell the General ’ow ’appy you are bein’ a soldier." "I don’t ’old wiv the
army," was Ginger’s gloomy response. "What!" There was the light of battle in
the General’s eye. "Then why the devil did you enlist?" he demanded in his most
aggressive parade manner. "To get away," was Ginger’s enigmatical response. "To
get away! To get away from what?" demanded the General. "You see, sir,"
explained Bindle, "Ginger ain’t ’appy in ’is ’ome life. ’E’s got a wife an’
three kids and——"

"Jawin’ an’ squallin’," interrupted Ginger vindictively. "Why don’t you like the
army?" demanded the General. "Don’t ’old wiv orficers." "With officers! Why?"
"Order yer about." "How the devil would you know what to do if they didn’t order
you about?" demanded the General rapidly losing his temper. "Don’t ’old wiv the
army," was the grumbled retort. It is Ginger’s method, when faced with an
awkward question, to fall back upon his inner defences by announcing that he
"don’t ’old wiv" whatever it is under discussion. "If you don’t hold with the
army, with officers, with wives and children, then what do you hold with?"
demanded the General angrily. "Beer," was the laconic response, uttered without
the vestige of a smile. Ginger personifies gloom. He would if he could snatch
the sun’s ray from a dewdrop, or the joyousness from a child’s laugh. It is
constitutional. "Poor ole Ginger’s ’appier when ’e’s miserable," Bindle
explained; "but ’e’s a rare good sort at ’eart is Ging. ’E once bought a cock
canary, wot the man told ’im would sing like a prize bird; but when the yaller
comes orf an’ there warn’t no song, and the bird started a-layin’ eggs, it sort
o’ broke poor ole Ging. up. ’E ain’t never been the same man since, ’ave yer,
ole sport?" Ginger muttered something inaudible, the tone of which suggested
blood. "If you could catch that cove you’d be ’oldin’ ’im, eh Ging?" "Blast
’im!" exploded Ginger. Shortly afterwards Ginger took an ungracious leave. The
Night Club saw him no more. On the Sunday following Bindle arrived early,
hilarious with excitement. "’Old me, ’Orace," he cried joyously, and two of
"Tims’" men supported him in the approved manner of the prize-ring, flapping
handkerchiefs before his face. Presently Bindle reassumed control of his limbs.
"What’s the joke?" enquired Dick Little. "Joke!" cried Bindle. "Joke! ’Ere ’old
me again." After further ministrations he explained. On the previous day he had
met one of Ginger’s mates, who had told him that Ginger was undergoing seven
days C.B. for fighting in the guardroom. "An’ wot jer think ’e was fighting
about?" enquired Bindle, his face crinkled with smiles. We gave it up. "Because
one of ’is mates says we’re goin’ to ’ave a republic! The poor chap’s in
’orspital now," he added, "a-learnin’ to believe in kings, and poor ole Ginger’s
learnin’ that it ain’t wise to believe too much in anythink." "Well, here’s to
Private Ginger, loyalist," cried Jim Colman, and we drank the toast in a way
that brought the General hurrying up from below. "I seem to been ’avin’ quite a
lot o’ things ’appen last week," remarked Bindle as he unscrewed the stopper of
a beer-bottle on the sideboard, and poured the contents into the pewter tankard
that Sallie had given him. After a long and refreshing drink he continued
tantalisingly—

"Funny ’ow things ’appen to me. Cheer-o! Archie," this to Old Archie who had
just entered, his face looking more than ever like a withered apple in which
were set a pair of shrewd, but kindly eyes. "Tellin’ the tale, Joe," he
remarked. Then turning to the rest of us he added, "Suppose poor old Joe was to
forget ’ow to talk. Evenin’, m’lord," this with an upward movement of his hand
as Windover entered. "There ain’t no fear o’ that, Archie my lad," replied
Bindle. "I’m as likely to forget ’ow to talk as you are to remember to put the
cawfee into the stuff yer sells for more’n it’s worth." "What’s been happening?"
demanded Blint. "I see Mr. Angell ’Erald the other day," Bindle remarked. "I was
on the tail-board o’ the van with ole Wilkes, ’im wot coughs to keep ’im from
swallowing flies." "Did he see you?" enquired Dick Little. "If ’e didn’t see me,
there wasn’t no excuse for ’im not ’earin’ Wilkie’s cough. They wouldn’t ’ave
’im as a special constable. Rude to ’im they was. Poor ole Wilkie ain’t forgot
it, ’e’s a bit sensitive like, not bein’ married." "Never mind about Wilkes,"
broke in Tom Little. "Get oh with the story, J.B."

At times Bindle has a tendency to wander into by-paths of reminiscence. "It was
in the Strand," he continued, "an’ to make sure of Mr. Angell ’Erald not bein’
disappointed I cheero’d ’im. ’E sort o’ looked round frightened-like, then ’e
disappeared into a teashop like a rabbit in an ’ole. S’pose ’e suddenly
remembered ’e was tea-thirsty," and Bindle looked round solemnly. "Perhaps he
didn’t hear you," ventured Dick Little. "When I cheero a cove, an’ Wilkie coughs
at ’im, well if ’e don’t ’ear then ’e ought to be seen to, because it’s serious.
Why the cop on point mentioned it to me. Said we’d set the motor-busses shyin’
if we didn’t stop. ’E was quite ’urt about it. Seemed upset-like about poor ole
Wilkie’s cough. No: ’e ’eard us right enough." "He may not have recognised you,"
the Boy ventured, knowing full well that Angell Herald would not be seen
exchanging salutations with a man on the tail-board of a pantechnicon. But
Bindle merely closed his left eye and placed the forefinger of his right hand at
the side of his nose. At that moment Angell Herald entered the room. He glanced,
a little anxiously I thought, at Bindle who, however, greeted him with
unaffected good-humour. "When you come in, sir," he explained cheerily, "I was
jest tellin’ ’ow me an’ Wilkie ran across ’is Lordship last week. Me an’ Wilkie
was on the tail-board o’ the van; but ’is Lordship come up an’—wot jer think?"
Bindle gazed round the room triumphantly. Angell Herald looked extremely
unhappy. Windover, on the contrary, seemed unusually interested. Having centred
upon himself the attention of the whole room Bindle proceeded,

"’E took us into a swell place an’ stood us a dinner. Lord, ’ow they did look to
see us, me an’ Wilkie in our aprons, ’is Lordship in ’is red tabs an’ a gold rim
to ’is cap, an’ a red band round it." Bindle was enjoying himself hugely,
especially as he saw that Angell Herald was becoming more and more
uncomfortable. "We ’ad champagne an’ oysters, an’ soup an’——  Well I thought
Wilkie ’ud never stop." He broke off to light his pipe, when it was in full
blast he continued. "Presently a cove in an ’igh collar comes up an’ says polite
like to ’is lordship—

"’Would you kindly ask that gentleman to ’urry with ’is soup, sir,’ meanin’
Wilkie, ’there’s a gentleman over there wot says ’e can’t ’ear the band, an’
this is ’is favourite tune.’"

"Mr. Bindle!" cried Sallie, who is very sensitive upon the subject of table
manners. "I’m sorry, miss, but you see poor ole Wilkie never ’ad no mother to
teach ’im. Yes," he continued, "we ’ad a rare ole time, me an’ Wilkie." Angell
Herald looked from Bindle to Windover. His veneer of self-complacency had been
badly punctured. "By the way, J.B.," said Windover, "I want you to come to lunch
with me again on Saturday. You’ll come, Little and you, Boy." It was Bindle’s
turn to look surprised. That is how he got a real "dinner" with a lord, and
Angell Herald had a lesson by which he probably failed to profit. To this day he
believes Bindle’s story of the mythical lunch. Bindle has never forgiven Angell
Herald his "men’s stories," and he unites with the Boy in scoring off him
whenever possible. Sometimes Dick Little and I have to take a strong line with
both delinquents. Fortunately Angell Herald is more often than not oblivious of
what is taking place. Sometimes we have a night devoted to Bindle’s views on
life. His philosophy is a thing devoid of broideries and frills. It is the
essence of his own experience. Once when Dare had been talking upon the subject
of ideals, Bindle had remarked:

"Very pretty to talk about, but they ain’t much use in the furniture-movin’
line. One in the eye is more likely to make a man be’ave than a month’s jawin’
about wot ’Earty calls ’brotherly love.’"

Bindle’s good-nature makes it possible for him to say without offence what
another man could not even hint at. Windover once remarked that Bindle would go
through life saying and doing things impossible to any but a prize-fighter. "An’
why a bruiser, sir?" Bindle had enquired. "Well, few men care to punch the head
of a professional boxer," was the retort. "It ain’t wot yer say, sir," Bindle
had remarked, obviously pleased at the compliment. "It’s wot’s be’ind the words.
I ain’t got time to look for angels in trousers, or saints in skirts. There
ain’t many of us wot ain’t got a tear or an ’ole somewhere, but it ain’t ’elpin’
things to put it in the papers." "But," Jim Dare, one of "Tims’" men, broke in
wickedly, "without criticism there’d be no progress." Bindle was on him like a
flash. "If an angel’s lost ’is tail feathers," he retorted, "you bet the other
angels ain’t goin’ to make a song about it. If they was the right sort of angels
they’d pull their own out, to show that tail-feathers ain’t everythink." We made
many attempts to get at Bindle’s views upon the Hereafter: but although by
nature as open as the day, there are some things about which he is extremely
reticent. One evening in answer to a direct challenge he replied,

"Well, I don’t rightly know, I ain’t been taught things; but I got a sort of
idea that Gawd’s a sight better man than Joe Bindle, an’ that’s why I can’t
stick ’Earty’s Gawd. ’E ain’t Gawd no more’n I’m the Kayser." Then after a pause
he had added, "If Gawd’s goin’ to be Gawd ’E’s got to be a mystery. Why there’s
some coves wot seem to know more about wot Gawd’s goin’ to do than wot they’ve
’ad for dinner." Dick Little never lost an opportunity of getting Bindle started
upon his favourite subject—marriage. One night he announced that his brother Tom
had become engaged to be married. "’E’s wot?" interrogated Bindle. "He’s done
it, J.B.," Dick Little had replied with a laugh. Bindle said nothing; but we
awaited Tom Little’s arrival with no little eagerness. When he entered, Bindle
fixed him with a remorseless eye. "Wot’s this I ’ear, sir?" he enquired. "What’s
what?" Tom Little enquired, becoming very pink, and casting a furious glance in
his brother’s direction. Tom Little’s demeanour left no doubt as to his guilt.
For some moments Bindle regarded him gravely. Tom Little proceeded to light a
cigarette; but he was obviously ill at ease. "Wot’s the use o’ me tellin’ yer
all about women," Bindle demanded, "when, as soon as my back’s turned yer goes
an’ does it. Silly sort of thing to do, I call it." "Don’t be an ass, J.B."  Tom
Little strove to carry off the affair lightly; but Bindle was Rhadamanthine. "I
told yer not to," he continued, then after a pause, "Course she’s got pretty
’air an’ eyes, an’ made yer feel funny an’ all that; but you jest wait. Mrs. B.
’ad all them things, an’ look at ’er now. She’s about as soft-’earted as a cop
is to a cove wot’s ’carryin’ the banner.’"*

* Walking the streets through the night

"Shut up, J.B.," said Tom Little, looking round as if seeking some loophole of
escape. "Well, sir," said Bindle with an air of resignation, "it’s your funeral,
but I’m sorry, I ’ope Gawd’ll ’elp yer; but I know ’e won’t." Another evening
Bindle had opened the proceedings by his customary "Miss an’ gentlemen, I got a
warnin’ to give yer. There’s only two things wot a cove ’as got to fight
against, one is a wife in ’is bosom, an’ the other is various veins in ’is legs.
An’ now I’ll call for the story." *CHAPTER XV*

*A DRAMATIC ENGAGEMENT*

The Night Club has neither rules nor officials; that is what makes it unique.
Bindle, Dick Little and I form a sort of unofficial committee of management. No
one questions our rulings, because our rulings are so infrequent as scarcely to
be noticeable. One of our great trials, almost our only trial, is the
suppression of Angell Herald. He is for ever proposing to introduce intimates of
his own, and we are often hard put to it to find excuses for his not being
allowed to do so. One evening he scored heavily against the "committee," by
bringing with him a tall man with long hair, a blue chin and an eye that spoke
of a thirst with long arrears to be worked off. His first remark was "Good
evening, gentlemen," as if he were entering the commercial room of a hotel.
Windover screwed his glass firmly into his left eye. Windover’s monocle is
always a social barometer—it "places" a man irrevocably. His face never shows
the least expression; but it is quite possible to see from his bearing whether
or no a new arrival be possible. "Allow me to introduce my friend, Mr. Leonard
Gimp, the actor," said Angell Herald. "Haaa! Very pleased to meet you,
gentlemen, very pleased indeed, Haaa!" came somewhere from Mr. Gimp’s middle,
via his mouth. As host Dick Little came forward and shook hands: but it was
clear from the look in his eye that he shared our homicidal views with regard to
Angell Herald. "Haaa! and how are you, Mr. Little?" enquired Gimp genially.
Little muttered something inaudible to the rest of us. "That’s right!" said Gimp
in hearty but hollow tones. "What wonderful weather we’re having," he continued
beaming upon the rest of us, as if determined to put us at our ease. "Wonderful
weather," he repeated. He was a strange creature, with ill-fitting garments and
soiled linen. Before he began to speak he said "Haaa!" When he had finished
speaking he said "Haaa!" If he had nothing at all to say, which was seldom, he
said "Haaa!" His air was confidential and his manner friendly. It was obvious
that he strove to model himself on the late Sir Henry Irving. The world held for
him only one thing—the Drama; and the Drama only one interpreter—himself. Gimp
sat down and, stretching out his legs, bent over and stroked them from instep to
loins, beaming upon us the while. "May I offer you a cigarette?" he queried,
picking up a box from the mantelpiece and proffering to Dick Little one of his
own cigarettes. Gimp seemed to be under the impression that he had come to
entertain us and he began to talk. His sentences invariably began with "Haaa! I
remember in 1885," or some other date, and we quickly learned that with him
dates were a danger signal. His idea of conversation was a monologue. As we sat
listening, we wondered how we should ever stop the flow of eloquence. He plunged
into a memory involving a quotation from a drama in which, as far as we could
gather, he had made one of the greatest hits the theatrical world had ever
witnessed. His enthusiasm brought him to his feet. We sat and smoked and
listened, mutely conscious that the situation was beyond us. Angell Herald was
the only man present, besides Gimp himself, who seemed to be satisfied. The rest
of us felt that there was only one hope, and that lay in Bindle, who was
unaccountably late. Bindle, we felt sure, would be able to rise to the occasion,
and he did. Gimp had reached a most impassioned scene in which the heroine
denounces the villain, who is a coiner. Bindle entered the room unobserved by
Gimp. For a few moments he stood watching the scene with intense interest. Gimp
had reached the climax of the scene in which the heroine says to the villain,
"Go! Your heart is as base as the coins you make." He paused, pointing
dramatically in the direction of Windover. "’Ullo! ’Amlet," said Bindle genially
from behind. Gimp span round as if he had been shot, and gazed down at Bindle in
indignant surprise. "Cheero! Where’d you spring from?" continued Bindle. "Sir?"
said Gimp. "Your wrong," said Bindle, "it’s plain Joe Bindle, Sir Joseph later
perhaps; but not yet." Bindle smiled up innocently at Gimp, who gazed round him
as if seeking for some explanation of Bindle’s presence, then a weak and weary
smile fluttered across his features, and he walked over to the side-board and
mixed himself a whisky and soda. We seized the opportunity to break off Gimp’s
demonstrations of his histrionic powers. We gave him a cigar, and every time he
started "Haaa! I remember in 18——" somebody butted in and cut him short. That
evening Bindle was in a wicked mood. He flagrantly encouraged Gimp to talk
"shop," "feeding the furnace of his self-conceit," as Dare whispered across me
to Sallie. "I went to the theatre last week," said Bindle with guile, "but I
didn’t see you there, sir." "Haaa! no!" said Gimp, "I’m restin’." "Sort o’ worn
out," said Bindle sympathetically. Gimp looked sharply at Bindle, who gazed back
with disarming innocence. "Haaa! a nervous breakdown," he replied. "To judge by
his nose, neuritis of the elbow," said Carruthers sotto voce. "What was the
piece you saw, J.B.?" enquired Roger Blint. "_Frisky Florrie_. Them plays didn’t
ought to be allowed. Made me ’ot all over, it did." Then turning to Gimp he
added, "I’m surprised at you, sir, sayin’ there ain’t nothink like the drama."
"That is not the Deraaama," cried Gimp. "That’s a pollution," his filmy eyes
rolled and he jerked his head backwards in what was apparently the dramatic
conception of indignation. "Fancy that, an’ me not knowin’ it," was Bindle’s
comment. "Haaa!" said Gimp. "Won’t you say one o’ your pieces for us, sir?"
enquired Bindle. "I’d like to ’ear real drama." Gimp looked blankly at Bindle.
"J.B. means won’t you recite," explained Dare in even tones. Gimp was on his
feet instantly, vowing that he was delighted. For a moment he was plunged in
deep thought, his chin cupped in his left hand, the elbow supported by the palm
of his right hand. It was extremely effective. Suddenly he gave utterance to the
inevitable "Haaa!" and we knew that the gods had breathed inspiration upon him.
Straightening himself, he shot his hands still further through his already short
coat sleeves, and gazed round. Raising his left hand he cried—

"Haaa! Shakespeare." Then he broke out into

"Ferends, Rhomans, Cohuntrymen lehend me your eeeeeeears." Quintilian was thrown
overboard: for there was nothing restrained in Leonard Gimp’s declamation. His
arms waved like flails, his legs, slack at the knee, took strides and then "as
you were’d" with bewildering rapidity. It was ju-jitsu, foils and Swedish drill
all mixed up together. One moment he was exhorting Windover, the next he was
telling Sallie in a voice that throbbed like the engaged signal on the telephone
how "gerievously hath Cæsar paid for it." The emotion engendered by the
munificence of Cæsar’s will produced a new action, which broke an electric globe
and, midst the shattering of glass, the doom of Brutus was sealed. "That is
Shakespeare’s Deraaama," he declared, as he resumed his seat and proceeded once
more to stroke his legs. It was clear to all of us that something had to be
done, and it was Dick Little who did it. Jocelyn Dare is a magnificent
elocutionist, although he can seldom be prevailed upon to recite. To-night,
however, he readily responded to Dick Little’s invitation. He selected Henry V’s
exhortation to the troops before Harfleur. After Gimp’s vigorous demonstration,
Dare’s almost immobile delivery seemed like calm after a storm. He looked a
picturesque figure as he stood, from time to time tossing back the flood of
black hair that cascaded down his forehead. He has a beautiful voice, deep,
resonant, flexible and under perfect control. Bindle seemed hypnotised. His pipe
forgotten he leaned forward eagerly as if fearful of losing a word. Gimp sat
with a puzzled look upon his face, impressed in spite of himself. It was the
first time the Night Club had heard Dare, and when he concluded there was a
lengthy silence, broken at last by Gimp, whose voice sounded like an anæmic drum
after Dare’s magnificent tones. "Haaa! thank you, sir, excellent," he cried
patronisingly. "You should go on the stage, haaa!" "Well that knocks the bottom
out of ole Shakespeare any’ow," said Bindle with decision, as he proceeded to
light his neglected pipe. "It is Shakespeare," said Sallie. Bindle looked at her
over the lighted match, then to Dare and on to Gimp. Finally he completed the
operation of lighting his pipe. "Well," he said somewhat enigmatically, "that
proves wot they say about there bein’ somethink in the man be’ind the gun." Soon
after Gimp took his departure with Angell Herald, leaving us with the
consciousness that the evening had not been a success. "You took it out of ole
’Amlet, sir," said Bindle with keen enjoyment. "That ole phonograph in ’is
middle sounds sort o’ funny arter ’earin’ you. An’ didn’t ’e throw ’isself
about, broke your globe too, sir," this to Dick Little, "an’ then never said ’e
was sorry." "He regarded it as the jetsam of art," said Windover. "P’raps you’re
right, sir," was Bindle’s comment. That evening resulted in the committee making
it generally understood that no one was to be introduced to the Night Club
without his name first being submitted to and approved by Bindle, Dick Little
and myself. Some weeks later I happened by chance to run across Gimp in the West
End. He thrust himself upon me and clung like a limpet, insisting that I should
have what he called "a tonic," which in his case consisted of a continuous
stream of glasses of port wine. When we parted some two hours later I had a
story, in return for which he had received ten glasses of port wine, for which I
paid, and five shillings. The last named he had obtained by a "Dear old boy,
lend me a dollar till next Tuesday morning. "Good-bye, my dear boy, God bless
you," he cried with emotion as he pocketed the two half-crowns and left me,
turning when he had taken some half-a-dozen steps to cry once more, "God bless
you." He did not inquire my address, and I am sure he did not know my name, so
that in all probability he is to this day walking London searching for me to
repay that dollar. The story, however, was worth, not only the dollar but the
port wine. "Fancy Old ’Amlet ’avin’ a story like that in ’is tummy," was
Bindle’s comment. This was Leonard Gimp’s story:

*I*

"But how do you know I can’t do it, Mr. Telford, if you won’t let me try?" There
was something suspiciously like a sob in Elsie Gwyn’s voice as she leaned
forward across Roger Telford’s table. "Please let me try, it means so much to
me." "My dear girl, a part like that requires experience and a knowledge that
you could not possibly possess. The whole play turns on that one character. Now
don’t be disappointed," he continued kindly, "you’re doing very well and your
time will come. Now you must run away like a good girl, because I’ve scores of
things to do. I shan’t forget you and I’ll cast you for something later. Seeing
that further argument was useless the girl rose to go. "Good-bye, Mr. Telford,"
she said soberly, blinking her eyes more than seemed necessary, "I’m sure you
don’t mean to be unkind; but really you ought to give me a chance before judging
me. It’s not quite sporting of you." Telford placed his hand for a moment on her
shoulder. "Now cheer up, little girl," he said, "Your time will come." He opened
the door and closed it again after her—Telford’s courtesy and kindness were the
"joke" of the profession. Roger Telford returned to the table and for a few
minutes sat pondering deeply. He was the most successful theatrical manager in
London. Everything he turned his hand to seemed to prosper. Rival managers said
he had the devil’s own luck; but instinctively they knew that it was the
sureness of his judgment that resulted in one success after another being
associated with his name. In the profession he was regarded a "white man." Many
laughed at him for being a prude, and he was known among the inner circle as
"Mrs. Telford," on account of his attitude towards the girls in his companies.
He had been known to knock a man down to teach him how to behave to a "Telford
girl." Those who could not get into his companies sneered at him as "a fish in
an ice box"; but those who were in his employ knew what a good friend he could
be. He was a bachelor and possessed a reputation that not even his worst enemy
could sully. Men affected to despise him, and a certain class of theatrical girl
looked upon him with contempt; but Roger Telford’s was a great name in the
theatrical world. "Little Elsie Gwyn wanted the part of Jenny Burrow in _The
Sixth Sense_," he remarked a few minutes later to Tom Bray, his stage manager at
the Lyndhurst Theatre. Bray shook his head. He was a man of few words. "Exactly
what I told her," said Telford; "but where the devil are we going to get anyone?
There’s Esther Grant, Phyllis Cowan, Lallie Moore; but none of them have got it
in ’em. They’re just low comedy turns. This thing wants something more than
that. It wants dramatic grip, it wants guts, and I’m hanged if I know of a woman
who’s got ’em." "There’s not much time," was the comment of the stage manager.
"Of all the damned uninspiring chaps, you beat the lot, Tom," laughed Telford.
"Here’s the infernal show getting into rehearsal on Monday, and you’re as calm
as an oyster." "Better cast the understudy, let her do it for a time," said
Bray. "It looks as if we shall have to fall back on Helen Strange," grumbled
Telford. "She’ll wreck the show, sure," commented the stage manager. "Damn!"
said Telford, as he crushed his hat on his head, seized his stick and gloves and
went out to lunch. *II*

Elsie Gwyn had been on the stage three years, two of which had been spent in the
provinces, principally in understudying. Like many other ambitious people, she
told herself that she had never had a chance. "It’s rotten," she confided to a
friend. "They always cast you according to your face. They’re as bad as the
American managers, who are always talking about ’the type.’  Just because I’ve
got fair hair and small features and blue eyes, and a sort of washed out
appearance (as a matter of fact Elsie Gwyn was exquisitely pretty with golden
hair, refined features and deep blue eyes, almost violet in tint), they cast me
for vicars’ daughters, milk-and-water misses and the like. I am sure I’ve got
drama in me, only no one will give me the chance to get it out." "Oh! dry up,
Elsie," her friend had responded, "you want to be Juliet in your first year."
Elsie Gwyn had walked down the stairs to the stage-door of the Lyndhurst Theatre
feeling that if anyone spoke crossly to her she would inevitably cry. "It isn’t
fair," she muttered to herself after saying good morning to the stage
doorkeeper, "it isn’t fair to say I can’t do it without giving me a chance. It’s
rotten of them, absolutely rotten." She seemed to find some comfort from this
expression of opinion. "When I’m famous, and I shall be famous some day," she
told herself, "he’ll be sorry that he didn’t give me my chance." With this
comforting assurance Elsie Gwyn entered the small Soho restaurant she frequented
when in the West End and ordered lunch. III

_The Sixth Sense_ had been put into rehearsal, and still the part of Jenny
Burrow had not been cast. Bray had urged upon Telford the necessity of securing
Helen Strange; but Telford had hung out. "I believe in my luck, old man," he
said, "something will turn up. I shall wait till the end of the week." This was
Thursday. Telford and his stage-manager were in the throes of producing _The
Sixth Sense_ from a company that, according to Tom Bray, hadn’t a single sense,
among the lot. The theatre was all gloom and strange shadows. The company was
grouped round the stage, leaving a clear space in the centre for those actually
rehearsing. Some sat on the two or three chairs available and three odd boxes,
the rest stood about conversing in undertones. To the uninitiated it would have
seemed impossible that a play could be produced out of such chaos. It was
difficult to disentangle the dramatist’s lines from Telford’s comments and
instructions. He was probably the most hard-working producer in London, and the
most difficult: but his company knew that by working with him whole-heartedly
they were striving for a common object—success. There was less grumbling at his
theatres than at any other in the kingdom. If he blamed unstintingly he paid
well, and to have been with Telford was in itself a testimonial. "Good God!" he
broke out, "you make love as if the woman were a gas-pipe." The youth addressed
flushed and turning to Telford rapped back, "Let me choose my own woman and I’ll
show you how to make love, Mr. Telford." Telford walked over to him and putting
his hand on his shoulder said, "My boy, I like that. Go ahead, do it your own
way and you’ll get there." That was Roger Telford all over. He understood human
nature. He knew that a man who could rap back an answer such as he had just
received had imagination, and he was there merely to direct that imagination.
"That’s better," he cried as the youth was warming to his work. "Hi! steady
though, not too much realism in rehearsals, keep that for the first night." "My
God!" cried Telford a few minutes later as he thrust his fingers through his
hair. "That’s not Jenny Burrow, that’s _The Pilgrim’s Progress_. The understudy
was not a success." Hour dragged after weary hour, lunch time came, three
quarters of an hour, and then back again. There seemed no continuity. First a
bit of this act then a bit of that: it was like building up a cinema film. It
was depressing work this preparing for the public amusement. It would have been
more depressing; but for the vitality and personal magnetism of Telford! Two
o’clock dragged on to three, three to half-past three, and thoughts were turning
towards tea-time, the half hour that was permitted at four o’clock, when a
startling interruption occurred. From the direction of the stage-door a woman’s
voice was heard raised in anger. "Engaged is he," it cried. "Too busy to see me?
I _don’t_ think. You just run along and tell him that Florrie’s here and wants
to see him, and if he don’t see her she’ll raise hell." The murmur of the stage
doorkeeper’s voice was heard. "Here, get out of the way," said the voice. A
moment after a girl bounced on to the stage. She was young, stylishly dressed,
fair as far as could be seen through her thick veil. The stage doorkeeper
followed close upon her heels muttering protests. Turning on him like a fury the
girl shouted:

"Here, clear out of it if you don’t want a thick ear." The man hurriedly stepped
back a few paces. The girl who had announced herself as Florrie gave a swift
look round, then spotting Telford went directly up to him. "Said you were too
busy, Roj. Not too to see Florrie, old sport, what?" Telford gazed at the girl
in astonishment. "You’ve made a mistake, I think," he said coldly. "Oh, listen
to the band," she sang. "Look here, what’s your lay, what are you after?"
Telford was conscious that the eyes of the company were upon him. "I’m afraid I
don’t know you, and you’ve made a mistake." "I never saw the lady before so she
can’t be mine you see," sang Florrie, who seemed to be in high spirits. "I’m
busy," said Telford, "and I must ask you to go. You’ve made a mistake." "Is your
name Roger Telford, or is it not?" "I am Mr. Telford, yes." "Oh! well, Mr.
Telford, I’m Florrie. Never heard o’ Florrie before, I suppose. Look here Roj.,
none of your swank. You ain’t been keepin’ me for two years to give me the bird
like this. You thought you’d done me, didn’t you, writing that letter and saying
all was over." "I tell you," said Telford with some asperity, "that I do not
know you." "Oh, Roger boy, Roger boy," said Florrie, wagging her finger at him.
"Aint you the blooming limit?" She placed her hands upon her lips, threw her
body back and regarded him with good-humoured aggressiveness. "I tell you I’ve
never seen you before. If you refuse to go I shall have you removed." Telford’s
anger was rising. "Oh! you’re stickin’ it on that lay, are you? All right, I’m
your bird. Never seen me before, haven’t you? I suppose you don’t remember
happening to meet me in "The Pocock Arms" two years ago last March do you? You
don’t happen to remember seeing me home. You don’t happen to remember taking a
flat for me. You don’t happen to remember giving me money and jewels. You don’t
happen to remember getting tired of me? And I suppose you don’t happen to
remember writing a letter and saying that it was all over and that you would
give me fifty pounds to be off and all the furniture. Do you happen to remember
any of those things, Mister Telford?" Telford looked round him bewildered. The
expression on the faces of his company left him in no doubt as to their view of
the situation. "I—I don’t know who you are or what you mean," he stuttered.
"And—and if you don’t leave this er—er—place I shall send for a policeman.
Saunders," he called to the stage doorkeeper who was still hovering about. "Oh
you will, will you," screamed Florrie, working herself up into a passion.
"You’ll send for a policeman will you? Go on Saunders, if that’s your ugly name,
fetch a policeman. That’s just what I want. We’ll soon clear up this matter. You
just fetch a bloomin’ policeman. Fetch two policemen while you’re about it, and
bring a handful of specials as well." She laughed stridently at her joke. As her
anger rose her aitches disappeared, her idiom became coarser. Seeing that
Saunders hesitated she cried "Well! Why don’t you go?" Then she turned upon
Telford. "Send ’im for a rotten policeman. Go on. You dirty tyke. You mucky-
souled liar. Never met me before? Never even seen me. After what ’as ’appened
and what you done for me. I was a good gurl till I met you. Why don’t you send
for a policeman?" Saunders looked interrogatingly at Telford, who shook his
head. "Ah!" screamed the girl. "I thought you wouldn’t send for no policeman."
"She’s mad," muttered Telford under his breath. He looked helplessly about him.
If there were a scene it might get into the papers, it would certainly be a nine
days wonder in the "profession." "Now look ’ere," shrilled Florrie to the
assembled company, "that dirty tyke says ’e don’t know me, never seen me before
this very hour. What about this?" She produced a photograph from one of the
large pockets in her frock. "To the only woman in the world, from Roger," she
read. She held out a recent photograph of Telford for the company to see. The
writing was certainly very like his. Tom Bray came forward and examined it. He
looked grave. "Well!" cried Florrie to Bray, "Is it like ’im. I suppose you’re
Tom Bray, ’is stage manager. ’E’s told me about you. Called you an oyster
because you never get flurried, said all you wanted was a bit o’ lemon." Tom
Bray started and looked swiftly at Telford. That was a favourite phrase of the
chief’s. "It’s a forgery," almost shouted Telford, making a clutch at the
photograph. "No you don’t, ducky," was Florrie’s laughing retort. "We’ll put you
away to bye-bye," and she tucked the photograph down her blouse. "What is it you
want with me?" asked Telford mechanically. "Oh! that’s it, is it," she cried.
"You think I want money. You think I’m a blackmailer, do you? You just offer me
money and I’ll fling it in yer ugly face, I will, you dirty tyke. I want to know
what you mean by writing me that letter—chucking me after what you done. That’s
what I want to know. I’m going to let all the world know what sort of a man you
are, Mrs. Telford. I suppose you’ve found someone amongst all these gurls here
what you like better’n me." Telford looked round him as if expecting inspiration
from somewhere. On his forehead stood beads of perspiration which he mopped up
with his handkerchief. Suddenly Florrie flopped down upon the stage and began to
sob hysterically. "Roger boy, don’t chuck me," she wailed, trying to clutch his
knees, he stepped back in time to avoid her. "Don’t chuck me. I always been true
to you, I ’ave. You oughtn’t to do the dirty on me like this. I won’t worry you,
only just let me see you sometimes." The girl’s self-abasement was so complete,
her emotion so genuine that more than one of those present felt an uncomfortable
sensation in their throats. "What in God’s name am I to do?" Telford cried, half
to himself; but looking in the direction of the low comedian, Ben Walters. "You
might marry the girl," said Ben. He regretted his words the moment they were
uttered. In a flash Florrie was on her feet, her humility gone, her eyes
flaming. "Who are you?" she screamed, turning on him like a fury. "You’re the
funny man I s’pose, but you ain’t nearly so funny as what you think. Anyone
could be funny with a face like yours. God made you a damn sight funnier than
what you know." Then with withering scorn, "I’ve seen better things won in a
raffle." Never had a comedian looked less funny than Walters at that moment.
With an almost imperceptible movement he edged away from his persecutor. "Yes,
that’s right. You slip off, and if you can get anyone to buy your face, don’t
you ask too much for it. Well! What are you going to do?" This to Telford to
whom she turned once more. Her movements were as swift as her emotional changes.
"I—I told you you’ve made a mistake," repeated Telford; but he was conscious of
the futility of the remark. "And I tell you you’re a liar," replied Florrie. "A
gurl ain’t likely to make a mistake about a man what’s done to her what you’ve
done to me. I was a good gurl till I met you." There was a break in her voice
that was perilously like a sob. "Look what you done for me, look, look. Oh! my
God!" She buried her face in her handkerchief. Her whole body shaken with sobs,
then slowly her knees gave way beneath her and she sank in a heap on the stage,
still sobbing hysterically. "Jenny Burrow in real life," muttered Tom Bray. "If
she could only act it all." "Oh, Roj," she cried through her handkerchief. "Oh!
Roj-boy, you’ve broken my heart. I love you so. I’d ’ave done anything for you.
I did. I—I—an’ now what’s to become of me? What’s fifty pounds to a gurl whose
heart’s broken? You—you played the dirty on me, Roj-boy, you played the dirty on
me. They got to know all about it at home and father won’t let mother see me.
I—I—we was such pals, mother an’ me, an’ it’s all through you; but—but—" she
struggled to her feet with heaving breast. "I ain’t done yet. I’ll pay you back,
you and your play-actors. I was a decent gurl before I met you. You—you—dirty
tyke." She fell back on the old phrase from sheer poverty of vocabulary. "You’re
like all men," she shrieked. "Like every cursed one of ’em. You come into a
gurl’s life, ruin it, then off you go and you give her money; but I’ll break you
this time, I’ll break you, I’ll smash you, Roger Telford, I’ll smash you. Damn
you! Blast you! May hell open and swallow you." The vindictiveness in the girl’s
voice made even the most hardened sinner shudder. "I’m goin’ to do myself in,"
she continued, "there’s nothing left for me; but I’ll leave behind me the whole
story, I’ll ruin you, just as you’ve ruined me. These are your friends round
you, these ’ere men and women. Look at their faces, look at ’em, see what they
think of you now; you stinkin’, low-bred swine." Telford looked on the point of
collapse. Someone gently propelled a chair towards him, on which he sank gazing
round him stupidly. Suddenly Florrie gave a wild hysterical shriek and fell. For
a moment her limbs twitched spasmodically, then she lay very still. She had
fainted. Several of the girls ran forward and began fumbling about with the
fastenings of her clothes. They removed her hat and veil, and one of them
uttered a cry of surprise. Suddenly Florrie sat up, and those about her, as if
impelled by their instinct for the dramatic, stood aside that Telford could see
her. It was Elsie Gwyn. "Please Mr. Telford," she said smiling, and in her
natural voice, "won’t you give me a trial in the part of Jenny Burrow." Telford
stared as a drunken man might who had been roused by the glare of a policeman’s
lantern. The company looked first at the girl, then at Telford, then at each
other. Telford drew a deep sigh. "My God!" he muttered. A babel of conversation
and chatter broke out. Telford gazed at Elsie Gwyn as if fascinated. "Listen,
everybody." A hush fell over the stage. It was Elsie Gwyn who spoke. "I asked
Mr. Telford to give me a trial as Jenny Burrow. He said that I was not
sufficiently experienced and could not create such a part. I thought I could. Of
course what I have just said was all——"

"Fudge and Florrie," broke in Walters, as if to reassert his claims as a
comedian. "Exactly, Mr. Walters. You’ll forgive me, won’t you?" "Sure, girl," he
said genially. "There’s no one here who’ll ever want to quarrel with you after
to-day," he added, at which there was a laugh. "Now, Mr. Telford," said Elsie,
"can I or can I not play the part of Jenny Burrow?" "Play it, girl, I should
think you could," cried Telford, jumping up from the chair. "But you’ve given me
the fright of my life. Come along upstairs and we’ll sign a contract." The two
left the stage together, and the company trooped out after them, knowing that
rehearsal was over for that day. Roger Telford was a sportsman, and too happy at
the termination of his nightmare to bear malice. He was delighted to find that
his luck had not failed him, and that he had found an actress capable of
creating the part that he had found such difficulty in casting. "She knew some
fancy words," was Bindle’s comment. "She ought to get on." "Was she a success?"
enquired Sallie eagerly. "She made the hit of the season," I replied. "Somehow
the story leaked out and got into the papers. It was the biggest advertising
boom Telford has ever had. The public flocked to see the girl who had scored off
Roger Telford." "A great advertisin’ stunt," said Angell Herald. "Wish I’d had
it. Some fellows get all the luck." "She ought to have married him," murmured
Sallie, gazing at nothing in particular. "She did," I said, "last season. It was
regarded as her greatest hit." "Oh! how splendid," cried Sallie, clapping her
hands in a way that would seem like gush in anyone else. Bindle looked gloomy
disapproval. "It’s all very well for you miss, but think of ’im an’ all them
words she knew." "But, Mr. Bindle, she was an actress," cried Sallie. "So’s
every woman, miss. They can’t ’elp it." "Mr. Bindle!" Sallie reproved. "Think o’
that poor chap goin’ an’ doin’ it after wot ’e’d ’eard. Isn’t it jest like ’em.
Nobody won’t believe nothink till they’ve tried it themselves. "I ’ad a mate, a
real sport ’e was. ’E wouldn’t believe me, said ’is little bit o’ fluff wasn’t
like other bits wot I’d seen. ’E talked as if ’e could ’ear ’er feathers
a-rustling when the wind blew, poor chap! Then ’e did it." Bindle paused as if
overcome by the memory of his mate’s misfortune. "’E ’adn’t ’ad ’er a month when
’e comes round to me one Saturday afternoon. I was sittin’ in the back-yard
a-listenin’ to a canary and wot Mrs. ’Iggins thought of ’er ole man. "’You was
right, Joe,’ ’e says, lookin’ about as ’appy as a lobster wot ’ears the pot
bubblin’. "’So you don’t ’ear the wind through ’er feathers now, Jim?’ I says.
"’There never warn’t no feathers, Joe,’ ’e says, ’only claws. Come an’ ’ave a
drink?’

"When a cove wot’s been talkin’ about ’is misses says, ’Come an’ ’ave a drink,’
you can lay outsider’s odds on ’is ’avin’ drawn a blank." "J.B. never admits of
the law of exception," remarked Dare. "That is the fundamental weakness of his
logical equipment." "Fancy it bein’ all that," remarked Bindle drily. "As Sallie
remarked," continued Dare, "this young woman was an actress, and she was out for
an engagement." "An’ got a weddin’ thrown in," said Bindle. "Every woman’s out
for an engagement, an’ yer can leave it to them that it ain’t goin’ to end
there. Well, ’ere’s for Fulham, an’ my little allotment of ’eaven. S’long
everybody," and Bindle departed, knowing that as Carruthers was present he would
not be required to call a taxi for Sallie. It was unusual for Bindle to be the
first to leave, and we speculated as to the cause. It was Sallie who guessed the
reason as Bindle had told her Mrs. Bindle was poorly, having caught "wot Abraham
’ud call a cold on ’er bosom." *CHAPTER XVI*

*THE MOGGRIDGES’ ZEPPELIN NIGHT*

"I’m tired," said Bindle one evening, his cheery look belying his words, "tired
as Gawd must be of ’Earty." He threw himself into a chair and fanned himself
with a red silk pocket-handkerchief. "What’s the trouble, J.B.?" asked Dick
Little, handing Bindle his tankard. Bindle drank deeply and proceeded to light a
cigar Windover had handed him. Bindle’s taste in tobacco had in the early days
of the Night Club caused us some anxiety. One night Windover came in and began
to sniff the air suspiciously. "There’s something burning," he announced. We all
made ostentatious search for the source of the smell. It was Windover who traced
it to Bindle’s cigar. Taking it from his hand he had smelt it gingerly and then
returned it to its owner. "I think," he remarked quite casually, "I should
change the brand, J.B. We cannot allow you to imperil your valuable life. Your
tobacconist has grossly deceived you. That is not a cigar, it’s an offence
against the constitution." "Is it really, sir," said Bindle anxiously as he
regarded the offending weed. "I thought it ’ad a bit of a bite to it." Windover
had then launched into a lengthy monologue, during which he traced all the evils
of the world, from the Plagues of Egypt to the Suffrage Agitation, to the use of
questionable tobacco. The upshot had been that Bindle agreed to allow Windover
to advise him in such matters in future. That is how it came about that at the
Night Club Bindle smokes shilling cigars, for which he pays Windover at the rate
of ten shillings a hundred, under the impression that they are purchased for
that sum. I afterwards discovered that the offending smokes were known as
"Sprague’s Fulham Whiffs," one shilling and threepence for ten in a cardboard
box. "The trouble," remarked Bindle in reply to Dick Little’s question, "is that
people won’t do the right thing. I jest been to see Mrs. Biggs wot’s in trouble.
Last week ole Sam Biggs shuts the door an’ window, turns on the gas, an’ kills
’imself, an’ leaves ’is missus to pay the gas bill. It’s annoyed ’er." "Is she
much upset?" enquired Sallie solicitously. "Somethink awful, miss. She don’t
seem to be able to get ’er voice down again, it’s got so ’igh tellin’ the
neighbours. I told ’er that it costs yer money to get rid of most things, from a
boil to an ’usband, an’ Sam ain’t dear at a bit extra on the gas bill." The
sittings of the Night Club invariably began and ended with conversation. Before
opening the proceedings by calling for the story, Bindle frequently eases his
mind of what was pressing most heavily upon it. His utterances are listened to
as are those of no one else. If he be conscious of the fact he does not show it.
He has become a law unto himself. He is incapable of giving offence, because
there is nothing but good-nature in his mind. One of our members, Robert
Crofton, a little doctor man, has a most extraordinary laugh, which he seems
unable to control. It is something of a cackle punctuated by a quick indrawing
of breath. One night after listening attentively to this strange manifestation
of mirth, Bindle remarked with great seriousness to Windover:

"No one didn’t ought to make that noise without followin’ it up with an egg."
From that date Crofton was known as "the Hen." It took considerable argument
before Bindle would agree to the inclusion in this volume of the story of how
Mr. Moggridge was cured of his infatuation for Zeppelins. I

Mr. Josiah Moggridge was haunted by Zeppelins! It is true that he had not seen
one, had never even heard a bomb explode, or a gun fired in anger; still he was
obsessed with the idea of the "Zeppelin Menace." He read every article and
paragraph dealing with the subject in all the newspapers and magazines he came
across. His children jackalled industriously for this food for their parent. If
Dorothy, who was as pretty as she was romantic, arrived home late, her olive-
branch would be some story or article about Zeppelins. If Alan, who was sixteen
and endowed with imagination, got into a scrape, it was a Zeppelin "rumour" that
got him out of it. Mr. Moggridge journeyed far and near in search of the
destruction caused by these air monsters. Had the British public known what Mr.
Moggridge knew "for a fact," the war would have collapsed suddenly. No nation
could be expected to stand up against the "frightfulness" that was to come,
according to Mr. Moggridge. In regard to Zeppelins the German people themselves
were sceptics compared with Mr. Moggridge. The slightest hint or rumour of a
Zeppelin raid would send him off hot-foot in search of the ruin and desolation
spread by these accursed contrivances. The Moggridge girls came in for many
delightful excursions in consequence, for Mr. Moggridge was never happy unless
he had about him some of his numerous progeny. If Irene wanted to see the
daffydowndillies in Kew Gardens, it seemed almost an interposition of providence
that she should hear there had been a Zeppelin raid near Richmond. In justice to
her it must be admitted that she would discredit the rumour; but nothing, not
even an Act of Parliament, could turn Mr. Moggridge from the pursuit of his
hobby. No amount of discouragement seemed to affect him. If he drew a blank at
Balham, he would set out for Stratford with undiminished ardour. Should Holloway
fail him, then Streatham would present the scene of desolation he dreaded, yet
sought so assiduously. "Man never is but always to be blest," might have been
the motto of Josiah Moggridge. Mrs. Moggridge was the type of woman who regards
her husband as something between a god and a hero. To Mr. Moggridge she herself
was always "Mother," and as if in justification of the term, she had presented
him with one son, and eight daughters, whose ages ranged from eleven to twenty-
two. Having done this Mrs. Moggridge subsided into oblivion. She had done her
"bit," to use the expression of a later generation. Her attitude towards life
was that of a hen that has reached the dazzling heights of having produced from
thirteen eggs thirteen pullets. She was a comfortable body, as devoid of
imagination as an ostrich. Her interests were suburban, her name was Emma, and
her waist measurement thirty-eight inches on Sundays and forty-two inches during
the rest of the week. Mr. Moggridge was forever on the alert for the detonation
of bombs and the boom of anti-aircraft guns. At night he would listen earnestly
for the sound of the trains that passed at the bottom of the Moggridge garden.
If the intervals between the dull rumblings seemed too prolonged, he would start
up and exclaim, "I believe they’ve stopped," which as everybody knows meant
Zeppelins. One night after the first Zeppelin raid (it is not permitted by the
Defence of the Realm Act to say where or when this occurred, or, for that
matter, in what part of the United Kingdom the Moggridges resided), Patricia
Moggridge, a petite brunette of twenty, all the Moggridge girls were pretty,
enquired, "What shall we do, dad, if Zeppelins come to Cedar Avenue?" Mr.
Moggridge had sat up in sudden alarm. Here was he responsible for the protection
of a family, yet he had taken no steps to ensure its safety. Patricia’s remark
set him thinking deeply. He loved his family, and his family adored him. They
regarded him as a child that has to be humoured, rather than a parent who has to
be feared. They obeyed him because they wished to see him happy, and Mr.
Moggridge’s conception of manhood was that "an Englishman’s home is his castle."
He was short and round and fussy, as full of interest as a robin, as explosive
as a bomb; but with eyes that smiled and a nature that would have warmed an ice-
box. A crisis or a misadventure excited him almost to the point of frenzy.
Starting for the annual holiday drove him nearly insane with worry lest someone
or something be left behind, or they lose the train. When Patricia asked her
innocent question she was sitting on her father’s knee "nuzzling his whiskers,"
as she called it, Mr. Moggridge wore side whiskers and a clean shaven upper lip
and chin, she was unaware of what would grow out of her question. Mr. Moggridge
read industriously the advice tendered by various newspapers as to what should
be done during a Zeppelin raid. He read with the seriousness of a man who knows
that salvation lies somewhere in the columns of the Press. One night he gathered
together the whole of his family in the drawing-room, including the two maids
and the cook, and instructed all in what should be done at the sound of the
first gun. He made many references to a sheaf of notes and newspaper-cuttings he
had before him, which seemed to get terribly mixed. He then enquired if everyone
understood; but the half-hearted chorus of "Yeses" that answered him was
unconvincing. "Cook," he said sternly, "what would you do if Zeppelins came?"
"Please, sir, faint," was the reply. The interrogation of other members of his
household convinced him that a further exposition was necessary. Stripped of
their verbal adornments, Mr. Moggridge’s instructions were that on the first
intimation that Zeppelins were at hand, the whole household was to make for the
basement. Half-an-hour’s further "instruction" left everyone still more
hopelessly befogged as to what was expected of them. The gist of Mr. Moggridge’s
instructions was:

(1) That everyone should make for the cellar without bothering about dressing.
(2) That every bath, portable or fixed, tub, jug, or other vessel was each night
to be filled with water, and placed on the landings as a protection against
incendiary bombs. (3) That under no circumstances was any light to be turned on
(as a precaution Mr. Moggridge turned off the electric light each night) or
candle to be lit. "But how shall we find our way downstairs?" enquired Allan,
his son and heir. "You’ll feel it, my boy," replied his father, unconsciously
prophetic. A few days later Mr. Moggridge read of the intention of the Germans
to use gas-bombs, and he immediately purchased at Harridges Stores fourteen
"Protective Face Masks." That night he returned home feeling that he had saved
fourteen lives, including his own. After dinner the household was once more
summoned to the drawing-room, where Mr. Moggridge distributed the gas-masks, and
gave a short lecture upon how they were to be worn. When he illustrated his
instructions by donning a mask, the younger of the two maids giggled
uncontrollably. Mr. Moggridge glared at her volcanically. "Girl!" he thundered,
"do you know that I am trying to save your life." Whereat the girl burst into
tears. Mr. Moggridge rustled about among his notes anxiously, whilst his hearers
watched him with breathless interest. He soon saw that no help was to be
expected from the Press, which appeared to be divided into two camps. There was
the bomb theory and the gas theory, the one demanding descent and the other
ascent. Mr. Moggridge was nonplussed and referred to the gas-bomb article.
Suppose explosive bombs were dropped when they were prepared for gas-bombs and
conversely? Suddenly he had an inspiration. "I’ve got it!" he shouted, as he
danced excitedly from one foot to the other. "If you smell gas you go up to the
attics: if you——"

"But how shall we know it’s gas unless we know what it smells like?" questioned
Alan. Mr. Moggridge looked at his only son as at someone who had asked him the
riddle of the universe. Alan was notorious for the embarrassing nature of his
questions. "I shall know how to find that out," was all that Mr. Moggridge could
reply, and Alan felt that he had obtained a tactical victory. "In the meantime,
if you smell anything you’ve never smelt before you’ll know it’s gas." This
seemed to satisfy everyone. Nevertheless, Mr. Moggridge made industrious enquiry
as to what gas really smelt like. No one knew; but many theories as to the exact
odour were advanced, ranging from vinegar to sewage. At last Mr. Moggridge heard
of a man who had actually been gassed. Eagerly he made a pilgrimage to the
district in which the hero resided and as eagerly put his question. "Wot’s gas
smell like?" remarked the warrior, whose moustache was as yet reluctant down
upon his upper lip. "It beats the smell of army cheese ’ollow, an’ that’s the
truth." And with this Mr. Moggridge had to rest content. In the silent watches
of the night, many a member of the Moggridge household would awaken suddenly and
sniff expectantly for "a strange odour rather like strong cheese," Mr.
Moggridge’s paraphrase of the soldier’s words. Mr. Moggridge decided to sleep at
the top of the house—alone. He had moved up there and sent down two of the girls
to sleep with their mother, because he regarded the upper rooms as the most
dangerous, and he was not lacking in courage. He regarded it as his mission in
life to protect those who looked to him for protection. In his mind’s eye, Mr.
Moggridge saw himself the saviour of thirteen lives, possibly fourteen if he had
not to give up his own in the attempt. Each night it was his self-imposed task
to examine "the defences" as his daughter, Mollie, called them. On every landing
and outside every door were baths, wash-tubs, basins, pails and other vessels
containing water. Even when the lights were on, it was a matter of some delicacy
to thread one’s way through these watery entanglements. The servants grumbled at
the additional work involved; but Mr. Moggridge had silenced them with "a
Zeppelin bonus," as he called it, and furthermore he had mobilised his whole
family to assist in this work of protection against fire. "When I’ve saved your
worthless lives, you’ll be grateful perhaps," he had exploded, and it had taken
"Mother" all the next morning to explain to her domestic staff that "valuable"
and not "worthless" was the adjective her husband had used. Outside his own
bedroom-door Mr. Moggridge had placed the large dinner gong on which to sound
the alarm, and at the head of the stairs an enormous tin-bath full of water. It
was so placed that the slightest push would send bath and contents streaming
down the stairs. Mr. Moggridge argued that no fire could live in such a deluge.
In time Mr. Moggridge came to regard himself as something between a Sergeant
O’Leary and the Roman Sentry, with a leaning towards the sentry; for there would
be no reward for him. He saw his family safe and sound, whilst his neighbours
lay maimed and dying. "We are at war, my dears," he would inform his family,
"and war is different from peace," and there were none who felt they could
question this profound truth. *II*

The night of November 5th was bleak and cold and misty, and as Mr. Moggridge
prepared for the night he shivered, and prayed that no Zeppelins might come. He
disliked the cold intensely, and pictured to himself the unpleasantness of
sitting for hours in a damp cellar with very few clothes on. Sleep always came
readily to Mr. Moggridge’s eye-lids, and within five minutes of extinguishing
the light and slipping into bed, his heavy breathing announced that he was in
the land of wonder that knows and yet does not know a Zeppelin. How long he had
slept Mr. Moggridge had no idea; but he was awakened by what he afterwards
described as "a terrific explosion" just beneath his window. "At last!" was his
mental comment as he sprang out of bed, sniffing the air like a cat that smells
fish. He rushed to the window and looked out. There were no search lights to be
seen; but another explosion, apparently in his own garden sent him bounding from
the window to the door. Seizing the handle he tore it open and, grasping the
leather-headed hammer, began to pound the dinner-gong as if his salvation
depended upon his efforts. "Zeppelins," he yelled, "Zeppelins." There were
sounds of doors opening, a babel of voices, a scream and then a soft-padded rush
upstairs. "Don’t come up here! Go down to the cellar," he shouted and, seizing
the gong, he dashed for the stairs. There was another report, and an "Oh my
God!" from the cook, followed by a peal of hysterical laughter from the younger
of the maids. There was a yelp, a swiiiiiish of rushing water, a pandemonium of
feminine shrieks, a tremendous clatter of metal and crockery, as bath caught
pail, and pail overset jug to add to the torrent that rushed down the staircase
like a flood. Mr. Moggridge had stumbled against the big bath! The avalanche
caught the Moggridges in the rear, shriek followed agonised shriek, as the cold
water struck the slightly clad bodies, the shrieks crystallised into yells of
anguish as the baths, jugs and bowls came thundering after the water. It seemed
the object of animate and inanimate alike to get to the ground floor first. At
each landing there was a momentary pause, just as a wave will poise itself
before crashing forward, then more crashes and shrieks and groans. All had lost
their foothold, and were inextricably mixed up with baths and bits of crockery.
At last the torrent reached the hall, where it lay gasping and choking,
wondering if this were death or the after punishment. "My God!" shrieked Mr.
Moggridge. "Gas!" He had forgotten his mask. He struggled to rise, but the cook
and half a foot-bath were firmly fixed upon his person. He could merely lie and
sniff—and pray. The air was foul with an acrid smell that seemed to have
permeated everything. To the Moggridges, heaped on the cold hall-tiles,
saturated and bruised, it carried a more conclusive proof of danger than the
buffeting received in the dash downstairs. It was Gas! Gas!! Gas!!! They would
be ruined for life, even if they escaped death. Above the wails of the
Moggridges and their retainers could be heard explosion after explosion from
without. Policemen’s whistles were singing their raucous, terrifying note. A
female voice was heard laughing and sobbing wildly—the cook was in hysterics,
whilst at last from an inextricable heap of human limbs and bodies rose the
courageous voice of Mr. Moggridge. "Keep cool, keep calm," he besought. "You are
quite safe here. You’ve got your gas masks. We——"

He was interrupted by a heavy and imperious pounding upon the knocker, and a
continuous sounding of the spring bell. A disc of light could be seen through
the stained-glass windows of the hall. From the shivering heap there was no
movement to open the door, nothing but cries and sobs and moans. The pounding
continued, punctuated by occasional explosions from without. It was Alan who at
last crept out of the corner from which he had watched the avalanche of his
family and its servitors, and went to the door, unbolting it and admitting what
appeared to be two rays of light. They ferreted about until they fell on the
heap of Moggridges. Alan’s first thought had been to turn on the electric light
at the meter. He now switched on the hall lights, discovering two policemen and
two special constables, who in turn discovered Mr. Moggridge. He had wriggled
into a sitting posture, where he remained grasping the dinner gong, as Nero
might have grasped his instrument when disaster overtook Rome, surrounded and
held down by his progeny. "Oh, turn off the light, do, please!" pleaded a voice,
and there was a chorus of cries and endeavours to make scanty draperies cover
opulent limbs; but the water had done its work, and one of the policemen,
remembering that he had sisters, turned his head aside, and the "specials," for
the first time since they had been enrolled, decided that it wasn’t so lacking
in incident after all, whilst owners and possessors of Moggridge limbs sought to
hide them beneath other Moggridge limbs, and those who could not do so hid their
faces. *III*

"You done fine!" A happy grin spread itself over the features of the speaker, a
little man with a red nose, a green baize apron and a blue and white cricket
cap, much the worse for wear. "You done fine," he repeated, and then as if to
himself, "Yes, them big crackers do make an ’ell of a row." And Joseph Bindle
looked at Alan Moggridge approvingly. "Wasn’t it lucky I went to help Aunt Mary
move? If I hadn’t I shouldn’t have seen you and——"

"And there wouldn’t a been no Zeppelin raid round your way. Well you ’ave to
thank Dr. Little for the stuff wot made ’em think it was gas-bombs! Fancy them
runnin’ in your old dad for lettin’ off fireworks. So long, sonny," and with a
nod and a grin Bindle passed on, wondering if Mrs. Bindle had stewed-steak and
onions for supper. "Oh! Mr. Bindle!" expostulated Sallie when the story came to
an end. Then after a pause she added, "Don’t you think it was a little cruel?"
There was concern upon Bindle’s face: he was troubled that Sallie should
criticise him. He looked from her to me, as if desirous that I should share some
of the responsibility. It was the first time I had ever seen Bindle abashed. The
dear chap is in reality as tender-hearted as a woman, and it was evident that,
for the first time, he saw things as they appeared to Sallie. "Well, miss," he
said at last. "I ’adn’t thought of it that way. I’m sorry for them gals," but in
spite of himself the flicker of a grin passed across his features. "I was only
thinkin’ o’ the old man wot didn’t ought to be allowed to go about scarin’
people out o’ their senses. I’m sorry, miss," and Bindle really was sorry. For
the rest of the evening it was easy to see that he regarded himself as in
disgrace. The way in which his eyes kept wandering to where Sallie was sitting,
reminded me of a dog that has been scolded, and watches wistfully for the sign
that shall tell him all is forgiven. When Bindle returned from seeing Sallie
into her taxi, I could see that the cloud had been brushed aside; for he was
once more his old jovial self. J.B. is a strange creature, as mischievous as a
monkey; but as lovable as—well, as a man who is white all through, and as
incapable of hurting the helpless as of harming the innocent. He has probably
never heard of the Public School Spirit; yet it has not much to teach him about
playing the game. *CHAPTER XVII*

*SALLIE AT THE WHEEL*

It is one of Windover’s pet theories that if a man will but be natural, he can
go anywhere and do anything. He claims that the Public School benefits a man not
by what it bestows; but rather by what it destroys. "It clips the ragged edges
of a man’s ego," he would remark, "and teaches him that as an entity he has no
place in the universe." Windover will talk for hours on this subject. Simplicity
of nature and the faculty of adapting himself to any environment are, according
to him, the ideal results the Public Schools achieve. In all probability Bindle
never had any ragged edges to his ego. Simple-minded and large-hearted, as much
at home with the denizens of Mayfair as the inhabitants of Hounsditch, he seems
never at a loss. He is always just Bindle, and that is why everyone seems
instinctively to like him. He always does the right thing, because he knows no
wrong thing to do. Unlike Angell Herald, he is not burdened with two distinct
sets of "manners." Bindle would discuss regicides with Hamlet, or noses with a
Cyrano de Bergerac with entire unconsciousness of giving offence. He is one
thing to all men, as Dare once told him, whereat Bindle remarked, "But don’t
forget the ladies, sir." One Sunday evening, just as the Club was breaking up,
Sallie remarked to Bindle, "Next Saturday, Mr. Bindle, you must get a whole
day’s holiday and come with me for a pic-nic." "Me, miss?" enquired the
astonished Bindle. "Me an’ you at a pic-nic. Well I’m blessed." Bindle was taken
by surprise. He looked from Sallie to Windover and then to me, as if seeking an
explanation of why Sallie should invite him. "Just we four," Sallie went on in
that inimitable way of hers, which would make purgatory a paradise. "We’ll take
the car and luncheon and tea-baskets. It will be splendid. You will come Mr.
Bindle, won’t you?" Sallie looked at him with sparkling eyes. "Come, miss?"
cried Bindle. "Come? I’ll come if it costs me Mrs. B.’s love. You did say a
motor car, miss?" he enquired anxiously, and Sallie’s assurance that she had,
seemed all that was necessary to complete his happiness. That evening Bindle and
I left Dick Little’s flat together. For some time we walked along in silence,
each engaged with his own thoughts. Suddenly Bindle broke the silence. "Wot did
I ought to wear, sir?" he enquired. There was a look of anxiety on his face, and
unusual corrugations on his forehead. "Well, J.B.," I remarked, "you’d look nice
in muslin with a picture hat." His reproachful look, however, showed me that I
had made a mistake. "I can’t wear them Oxford togs with ’er," he remarked. It
should be explained that when Bindle went to Oxford, impersonating the
millionaire uncle of an unpopular undergraduate, he had been fitted out with a
wardrobe to suit the part. Included in it were a loud black and white check
suit, a white waistcoat, a Homburg hat with a puggaree, a red necktie and a cane
heavily adorned with yellow metal. Involuntarily I shuddered at the thought of
what Sallie would suffer if Bindle turned up in such a costume. "No," I said
with great seriousness, "they’re not quite suited to motoring. You must get a
new rig out, J.B.," I added. Still Bindle’s face did not clear, and I guessed
that it was a question of finance. I proffered assistance; but that did not help
matters. It seemed to make things worse: Bindle is very independent. For some
time we walked along in silence. Suddenly I had an inspiration. "I’ll sell one
of your yarns to an unsuspecting editor," I said, "and we’ll share the plunder.
I’ll advance you something on account of your share." In a second the clouds
disappeared. "You’re sure it’ll earn enough?" he enquired suspiciously. I
proceed to swear that it would in a manner that would have made Lars Porsena
envious. I was interrupted by a taxi pulling up with a grind just behind, and
Windover jumped out, paid the man and joined us. "I quite forget," Windover
began. "Sallie told me to arrange to meet at Putney Town Station, she’ll run the
car through and pick us up there." Bindle explained to Windover that the
question of his wardrobe had been under discussion and the upshot was that
Windover, who is a supreme artist in the matter of clothes, undertook to see
Bindle properly turned out. On Saturday morning I was at the appointed place a
few minutes before nine, I looked round for Bindle, and then forgot him in
watching the struggles of a horse to drag a heavily-laden coal-cart up the rise
where the High Street passes over the railway. The level reached, the carter
drew up to the curb where the horse stood quivering and panting, bathed in
sweat. Suddenly I became aware that one of the men I had observed pushing behind
the cart was Bindle; but such a Bindle. No wonder I had at first failed to
recognise a blue-suited, brown-booted, dark-tied Bindle. Everything about him
was the perfection of fit and cut, from his simple crook cane to his wash-
leather gloves. Most wonderful of all, Bindle carried his clothes as if
accustomed to them every day of the week. With perfect gravity he drew off his
right glove before shaking hands. "D’yer like it, sir?" I drew a sigh of relief.
The vernacular was unchanged; it was still the same Bindle. "J.B.," I said
gravely, "I’ve never seen a better dressed man in my life. It’s an entire
metamorphosis. ";

"There you’re sort o’ wrong, sir. It’s ’is Lordship. D’yer think she’ll like it,
sir?" he enquired anxiously. By "she" I knew he meant Sallie. "Sure of it," I
replied with confidence. Bindle seemed reassured. Suddenly his eye caught the
black line across the palm of his right glove. "Look wot I done." He held out
the glove for my inspection as a child might a torn pinafore. "Wot’ll she
think?" There was anxiety in his voice. "She’ll be rather pleased when I tell
her how it happened," I replied, at which his face cleared. "I wanted a red tie
to sort o’ give it a bite; but ’e wouldn’t ’ave it, so ’ere I am," and Bindle
drew on his right glove once more. "Tell me all about it," I urged. "Those
clothes were made in the West-End, I swear." "Got it first time, sir," he
remarked, as he drew from his breast-pocket a suspicious-looking cigar with an
enormous red and gold band round its middle. "Let me cut it for you," I broke in
hastily, seizing the weed without waiting for his acquiescence. That band would
have killed Sallie, so I ripped it off. As I did so Bindle made a movement as if
to stop me, but he said nothing. As I raised my eyes from the operation, I saw
his regretful gaze fixed upon the band lying on the pavement, a shameless splash
of crimson and of gold. Bindle lighted his cigar and I manoeuvred to get to
windward of him. "You was talkin’ about these ’ere duds, sir," remarked Bindle
puffing contentedly at what made me pray for Windover’s swift arrival: I do not
carry cigars. "You was right, sir." "In what?" I queried. "They came from Savile
Row, from ’is Lordship’s own snips. You should a seen ’is face when ’is Lordship
said ’e was out for reach-me-downs for yours truly." It was easy to visualise
the scene. Windover easy, courteous, matter-of-fact. His tailor staggered, yet
striving to disguise his astonishment under a veneer of urbanity and "yes-my-
lords." Windover is the most perfectly bred creature I have ever met. If he were
to order riding breeches for a camel, he would do so in such a way that no one
would think of laughing, or even regarding it as strange. "Took me round ’isself
everywhere," continued Bindle. "We got this ’at in Piccadilly, these boots an’
gloves in Bond Street, also the tie." Bindle looked round cautiously and then
bending a little closer he confided, "I’m silk underneath!" He leaned back upon
his stick to see the effect. I smiled. "Wi’ funny things round me legs to keep
me socks up," and he grinned joyously at the thought of his own splendour. "What
did Mrs. Bindle say?" I enquired. "’Ush, sir, ’ush! She said about every think
she could think of, and a good many things she didn’t ought to know. She talked
about Mammon, keepin’ ’oly the Sabbath day, about Abraham’s bosom. Jest fancy a
woman married to a man like me a-talkin’ about another cove’s bosom. Why can’t
she say chest and be respectable?" "And what did you say?" I queried. "Oh!"
replied Bindle, "I jest asked ’er wot ole Abraham did when he got a chill, an’
if ’e called it a cold on ’is bosom?" I laughed, but Bindle continued seriously,
"She arst me where I’d be if the end of the world was to come sudden like."
Scenting a good rejoinder I enquired what he had said. "I told ’er to look in
the saloon-bar first, an’ if I wasn’t there to try the bottle-an’-jug
department. I come away then. Mrs. B.’s a rummy sort o’ send-off for an
’oliday," he soliloquised. After a pause he added, "I’d like to ’ave jest a peep
at ’eaven to see if Gawd is really like wot Mrs. B. says. Seems to me ’e must be
like one o’ them quick-change coves I seen at the Granville. Ole War-an-Whiskers
[the Kayser] says ’E ’elps the Germans to kill kids an’ ’ack women about, Mrs.
B. says ’e’s goin’ to give me pickles when I die, an ole ’Earty seems to think
’E’s collectin’ ’oly greengrocers. There was one parson chap wot told me that ’E
was kind an’ just, with eyes wot smiled. I don’t see ’ow ’e can be the ole
bloomin’ lot cause——"

Bindle suddenly broke off, straightened himself, lifted his hat and proceeded to
pull off his glove. I turned and saw Sallie bringing her "Mercedes" along at a
thumping pace. She bore in towards us and brought the car up in a workmanlike
manner. Windover, who was seated behind her, jumped out. "Cheer-o!" said Bindle.
"Cheer-o!" replied Windover. Probably it was the first time in his life that he
had ever used the expression: he is inclined to be a purist. "You been stealin’
a march on us, sir," said Bindle. "I was literally picked out of my taxi,"
explained Windover, "hardly given time to pay the man, I should say over-pay the
man, I had forgotten the war." I saw from the look in Sallie’s eyes that she was
pleased with Bindle’s appearance. "Jump in," she said. Sallie is always brisk
and business-like when running "Mercy," as she calls her car. "You must sit by
me, Mr. Bindle." Bindle’s cup of happiness was now full to overflowing. When he
took his seat beside Sallie I caught his eye. In it was a look of triumph. It
said clearly, "Jest fancy ’er wantin’ me when she could have a lord." As we
swung up Putney hill, Windover told me of his experiences in clothing Bindle. At
my particular request he also gave me an approximate idea of the sum involved.
It was worthy both of Windover and the West End. "But my dear Windover," I
expostulated, "was silk underwear absolutely necessary for this pic-nic?"
Windover turned upon me a pair of reproachful eyes. "Phillips is sensitive," he
remarked, "and if he knew that any of his ’creations’ were put over anything but
silk, he would close my account." With that I had to rest content. Personally I
had seen no need to take Bindle to Phillips at all; but Windover is an artist,
he "composes" his wearing-apparel as a painter composes a picture, or a poet a
sonnet. If providence be discriminating it will punish Windover in the next
world for his misdemeanours in this by making him wear odd socks, or a hard hat
with a morning coat. I told him so. As we talked I noticed Windover snuffing the
air like a hound. He looked at me, then moved the rug to see if there were
anything at the bottom of the car. Finally he smelt the rug, still he seemed
dissatisfied, continuing to turn his head from side to side sniffing, as if
endeavouring to trace some evil smell. Finally his eyes fixed themselves on
Bindle sitting complacently smoking his cigar. "Good God!" he muttered as he
screwed his eye-glass into his eye. "I thought it was a dead dog. He must have
run out of ’coronels.’" I heard him mutter. "You can’t raise a man from Fulham
to Curzon Street in a few hours, Windover," I remarked reproachfully. "You
taught Bindle to remove his glove before shaking hands, and you also gave him
very creditable instructions in how to lift his hat so as not to look like a
third rate actor in a Restoration melodrama; but you omitted to instruct him in
the choice of cigars." Windover has as delicate a taste in tobacco as in women;
in other words he is extremely fastidious. I watched him as he turned the
problem over in his mind. I could follow his train of thought. It was obviously
impossible to sit inhaling the fumes of Bindle’s cigar. It was unthinkable again
to tell the dear chap it was nothing short of a pollution. In all probability it
was a threepenny cigar, the extra penny being in honour of the occasion.
Therefore some other way out of the difficulty must be devised. I, had every
confidence in Windover and his sense of delicacy. His eyeglass dropped from his
eye, a sure sign that the strain of deep-thinking was past. Taking his cigar
case from his pocket, he tapped Bindle on the shoulder and whispered to him.
Bindle gave a quick look at Sallie, surreptitiously threw away his cigar and
accepted one proffered by Windover, the