CHAPTER I. One fine summer's afternoon a few years ago, a pretty, neat-looking,
but small spring-britchka, drove into the court-yard of an inn, in the
governmental town of Smolensk. The vehicle was one of that peculiar description
to which bachelors, retired colonels, staats-capitains, and landowners,
rejoicing in the possession of about a hundred-and-fifty _souls_, give the
preference for travelling purposes; in short, all those who in Russia are called
"gentlemen of the middle rank." The traveller who occupied the high seat in this
convenient conveyance, was a man, who at first sight could not have been taken
for handsome, yet we should do him injustice were we to affirm the contrary of
him, for he was neither too stout nor too thin; it would also have been
impossible to add that he was too old, as little as it would have been right to
call him youthful. His arrival in the above-named town created no particular
sensation, and, indeed, it took place without the occurrence of anything unusual
or even extraordinary; two Russian mouzhiks, however, who were standing before
the door of a dram-shop on the opposite side of the inn, were apparently making
their strictures and observations, but which, were confined to conjectures
concerning the britchka, not upon the gentleman occupying the carriage. "Dost
thou see it?" said the one to the other, "there is a wheel for you! what do you
think of it, would it break or not, supposing it had to roll as far as Moscow?"
"It might stand the journey," replied the other, musingly, as he scratched
himself sedulously behind the ear. "But supposing it was on its way to Kazan, I
think it could not stand the wear and tear of such a distance?" said the first
speaker again. "It will never roll into the ancient Tatar fastness," responded
his friend somewhat affirmatively. Thus ended their learned conversation, the
scientific depth of which we will not venture to explore. But previous to the
britchka being stopped by its driver before the entrance door of the inn, a
young man had happened to pass; he was dressed in a pair of white, very tightly-
fitting, and extremely short, twill inexpressibles, buttoned up under a dress-
coat of the most fashionable cut, and from under which a snow-white linen shirt-
front visibly displayed an elegant bronze pin of common Tula manufacture,
representing a weapon in the shape of a pistol. This young gentleman turned
round, and also honoured the travelling-carriage of our stranger with a hasty
glance, at the same time adjusting his hat upon his head, to guard it against
the attack of a sudden gust of wind, and then--turning upon his heel, he too
went his way. When the carriage had entered the court-yard, and stopped before
the principal entrance of the inn, the traveller was welcomed by the head-
waiter, or saloon-walker, as this class are commonly called in Russian hotels,--
so lively, and spin-about a fellow, that it was actually impossible to look him
in the face, or, in consequence of his mercurial evolutions, to recognise even
the outlines of his features. He now came running out breathlessly with a napkin
over his arm. He was all one length, without symmetry or the slightest
appearance of proportion, and wore a long demi-cotton jacket, which nearly
fitted his back instead of his waist; he shook his head, and made his long hair,
which was cut _Ã  la mouzhik_, fly in all directions, and led the stranger
quickly up-stairs through the long range of wooden galleries of the inn, and
showed the fatigued traveller into the apartment, which, by the decrees of the
hotel authorities, he was to occupy. The room was much the same as such rooms
usually are, because the inn was of a similar character, _i.e._, such an inn as
is to be found in all provincial towns of the vast Russian Empire; where, for
the sum of two or three roubles, during the course of twenty-four hours, the
weary traveller is accommodated with a comfortable room full of beetles, which,
like blackberries, peep out from every corner; another door led into an
adjoining bed-room, always barricaded with a chest of drawers, or a washing-
stand, and occupied by a peaceable and silent neighbour, whose predominant
propensity is a lively and irrepressible curiosity to ascertain all he possibly
can about the private and public affairs of the new comer. The exterior of the
building was in strict harmony with its interior: it was extremely long, and two
stories high; the lower portion was not whitewashed, but was permitted to
display its brownish red bricks, that had grown dark with years, and looked
gloomy and dirty, not only from the sudden changes of wind and weather, but
because they had no doubt been originally of a peculiar dirty tint. The upper
story was painted all over with the eternal yellow, a colour so fancied and
admired in Russia; on the ground-floor there were several small shops, in which
harness, leather, cords, crockery, and cake of all description were displayed to
the best possible advantage. In one of these above-named shops, in the corner
one, or rather at the window belonging to it, a dealer in heated mead-water, was
standing close to his samovar made of bright copper, and it so happened, that he
had a face as red as his samovar, so that at a distance, one might have easily
fancied there were two self-boilers standing at the window, had it not been for
the feet of one of the samovars being ornamented by a jet-black, long, flowing
beard. Whilst our gentleman traveller was examining the room allotted to him,
his luggage and other effects were brought in. First of all, his portmanteau,
originally made of white leather, but now looking somewhat old, and testifying
to the fact that it had been more than once on the road. This portmanteau was
carried in by the coachman Selifan, a man of middle stature, clad in a toulup,
and the servant Petruschka, a brisk, handy fellow of about thirty, dressed in an
ample, shabby-genteel coat, evidently cast off from the the shoulders of his
master. He also was a man of middle size, apparently of a sulky nature at first
sight, with very broad lips and a large nose. After they had deposited the
portmanteau, they brought in a small mahogany travelling box, inlaid with ebony
and other ornamental woods, a pair of boot-legs, and a cold fowl, carefully
wrapped in a piece of brown paper. When all these effects were properly located
in their respective places, the coachman Selifan left the room with the
intention of looking after his horses, whilst the servant Petruschka began to
make his arrangements in a small adjoining antechamber, very dark and much like
a dog-kennel, into which he had already succeeded in conveying with him his
travelling cloak, together with a peculiar odour of his own which was also
common to a large bag of his, containing a variety of articles, forming the
indispensable toilet of a travelling servant. In this same dark dog-kennel he
fixed against the wall as well as he possibly could, a shaky, three-legged
bedstead, and stretched upon it something not unlike a mattress, but as meagre
and flat as a pancake, and perhaps not less greasy. This mattress, however, he
had obtained not without some difficulty, from the landlord of the inn. During
the time that these servants were thus busily engaged in making themselves and
their master comfortable, the latter had himself descended into the reception
saloon. What character these so called reception-rooms bear--many of my readers,
who have travelled in Russia, will know perfectly well --everywhere the same
walls, painted in oil-colours, darkened by the smoke of stoves and tobacco in
the upper parts, and greasy from the backs of visitors and travellers in the
more accessible regions below; the walls are principally thus disfigured by the
resident tradesmen of the town, who, on a market-day will gather together in
friendly groups, to take their usual quantum of tea, and talk over business and
things in general. There are the same grimy ceiling and glass-lustres with their
numerous prismatic ornaments dangling around them, shaking and ringing whenever
the head waiter runs across the room over the worn-out carpet, whilst swinging
about his tray fearlessly and in the most acrobatic manner imaginable, though it
be covered with cups and saucers like the ocean shore with sea-gulls--the same
pictures all around the wall, painted, of course, in oil; in a word all was here
similar to what it is elsewhere, the only striking difference worthy of notice
was perhaps a painting representing a nymph with such an enormous bosom as
undoubtedly my reader has never seen. Similar fancy portraitures of nature's
bestowings, however, make their appearance in many historical pictures, which,
heaven knows, at what period, from whence and by whom, have been brought to us
into Russia, and exposed to our view. Sometimes indeed, we have to thank our
aristocracy for them, who as admirers and patrons of the fine arts, commission
their travelling couriers to purchase them in Italy and elsewhere, according to
their taste and judgment. Our hero took off his travelling cap and liberated his
neck from the close embrace of a woollen rainbow-coloured neckcloth, resembling
those which a dutiful wife will knit with her own fair hands for her beloved
husband, and present it to him with the necessary instructions how to tie it and
untie it; as for bachelors, I really cannot say whose kind hands knit such ties
for them, but for my own part, I never had the fortune to wear such neck-
wrappers in my life. After having freed himself of his woollen tie, the
gentleman ordered his dinner to be brought to him. Whilst various dishes were
being served up to him, such as are customary in Russian hotels, as for example;
stchee, or cabbage soup, with small meat pies, especially prepared--and indeed
always kept ready for all travellers and for many weeks in advance--calf's head
and green peas, sausages and greens, roast fowl, salt cucumbers, and the
everlasting sweet flour tarts, continually ready and in store; whilst, as we
before said, all these good things were being displayed before him, either cold
or warmed up, he amused himself by addressing various questions to the head-
waiter, inquiring who the former hotel-keeper was and who the present, what the
expenses were, and how large the income was, whether the landlord was a thorough
rogue or only partially so, to which the head-waiter would invariably reply:
"Oh, yes, Sir, a great scoundrel, Sir!" Thus, then, as is the case in civilized
Europe, there are also in civilized Russia, a great many respectable people, who
cannot eat their dinner in an hotel, without speaking to the waiter, and who
even cannot forbear passing a joke or two upon him. However, our traveller did
not limit his inquiries to apparently unimportant matters, but he also and with
wonderful circumspection and in due rotation inquired of the head-waiter who the
Governor of the town was, after the names of the Presiding Magistrate and the
Imperial Procurator--in a word, he did not omit any of the higher officers of
the crown, but even tried to ascertain with as much precision as possible, if
not with complete success all or any information he could elicit as regarded the
most important and richest landowners of the vicinity, how many _souls_ or
peasants each of them might possess, how far out of town he lived and what his
character and disposition were, and how frequently he came from his country-seat
to visit the town. He also inquired very minutely about the condition and health
of the environs, whether that particular government had been visited by any
contagious diseases, such as epidemic and other fatal fevers, the ague, cholera,
and similar plagues; and all this was asked with such apparent solicitude, and
the replies were listened to with such marked interest as to make it quite
obvious that simple curiosity was not the only motive that prompted him to put
all these various questions. In his manner there was something sedate and solid,
and he had a habit of blowing his nose very noisily indeed, and though it is
impossible to say how he contrived to do so, it must be admitted that the noise
was something similar to a blow through a hautbois. This, in itself apparently,
quite harmless habit had, nevertheless, the good effect of attracting the more
particular attention of the head-waiter, who, each time he heard this singular
noise, at once shook his head and made his hair fly in all directions, whilst
straightening his frame and bending down his bust in a more respectful
inclination, he asked the stranger if he wished for anything else? After dinner,
the gentleman took a cup of coffee and seated himself upon the sofa, and to
increase his comfort he put a cushion behind his back; and cushions in Russian
hotels, instead of fine and elastic wool are generally filled up with something
not unlike bricks and pebbles; upon this the stranger yawned once or twice, and
then wished to be shown into his apartment where he lay down and slept soundly
for about two hours. After this refreshing siesta he rose, and wrote upon a slip
of paper, accordingly to the regulations of the establishment, and the request
of the head-waiter: his rank, profession, Christian and family name, for the due
information of the police authorities. Upon this paper, the head-waiter whilst
hurrying down stairs, spelled with as much agility as he was capable, the
following: "Councillor of State, Pavel Ivanovitch Tchichikoff, landowner,
travelling for his own amusement and affairs." CHAPTER II. Whilst the head-
waiter was still engaged in decyphering the words written on the slip of paper,
Tchichikoff left his room and went into the street, to examine the town, with
which he evidently appeared to be pleased; for he, no doubt, found that it in no
way yielded precedence to any other governmental or provincial town of the
Empire: the yellow colour was strikingly predominant upon all the stone
edifices, whilst a more modest dark grey hue was thickly diffused over all the
wooden buildings. The houses were of regular and irregular construction, of one,
two, and one a-half stories high, with everlasting balconies, of course very
pretty according to the good taste of provincial architects. In some places,
these houses appeared as if lost in midst of the plain-like large streets and
their interminable long wooden garden-enclosures; in other places again, they
were huddled together, and here life and commerce were more perceptible. Some of
the sign boards, though many were washed clean by heavy rains and snow-storms,
displayed here and there a well painted cake, a pair of Suwarrow boots, or a
coat and pair of inexpressibles, with the inscription "tailor, from Paris;" then
again a hosier's shop, exhibited hats and gloves, stockings and night-caps, with
the superscription: "Arsenieff Philipoff, foreign merchant;" on another house
might be seen a very large sign-board with a billiard-table painted upon it, and
two players in dress-coats, such as the dramatis personae wear in an after-
piece, when they enter as "guests," upon the stage. The players on this sign-
hoard were represented in the act of aiming at a ball with their cues, their
arms slightly bent backwards and rather ill-shaped legs, as if they had been in
the act of making an unsuccessful attempt at an _entrechat._ Under this
billiard-table was written in large characters: "And here is the establishment."
Here and there a man or woman was hawking wares about the street, or selling
them at a stand, such as nuts, apples, soap, and cakes--which bore a striking
resemblance to soap; then again a coffee and tea-shop, or eating-house, with a
large sign board outside, with an enormous fish on it, in the back of which a
gigantic fork was stuck, like an harpoon in a whale. Most frequent of all were
the double-headed and swarthy looking Imperial eagles spreading their protecting
wings over the entrance of the numerous taverns with the laconic inscription,
"dram-shop." The pavement was in a bad condition everywhere. The curiosity of
Pavel Ivanovitch Tchichikoff, the Councillor of State, went even so far as to
honour with a minute inspection the public garden of the town; he found the
trees very scrubby and scantily planted, taking feeble root, leaning for support
against three posts in the shape of a triangle, and very neatly painted with
green oil-colour. Although these trees were not much higher than common reeds,
yet they were mentioned and described in the newspapers on the occasion of the
last illumination of the town in the following exceedingly complimentary style:
"Thanks to the munificence and protection of our Governor-General, our town is
being rapidly embellished, and has again been endowed with an additional
ornament--a public garden--full of shady and broad-leaved trees, spreading their
protecting branches against the oppressive heat of the day, and it is very
gratifying indeed, to witness how loudly the hearts of the good citizens beat,
and their tears of gratitude flow in acknowledgment and gratitude towards our
Lord-Lieutenant and Governor." After asking the policeman on duty the nearest
way to the parish-church, the town-hall, and the residence of the Lord-
Lieutenant, Tchichikoff went to take a walk near the river, which flowed through
the centre of the town; on his road thither he happened to pass a lamp-post,
from which he tore off a play-bill, which was flapping loosely; no doubt with
the intention of reading it with more leisure, when at home; he looked
attentively at a lady of rather elegant appearance who was passing along the
wood pavement the other side of the street, and who was followed by a little
page in a military livery, carrying a large bundle in his hands; once again he
cast a long and general glance around him as if with the intention of
familiarizing his memory with the position of place and streets, and then went
straight home to his room, slightly assisted by the ever attentive head-waiter,
during the process of getting up-stairs. Having had tea, he sat down before a
table and ordered a wax candle, produced the torn off play-bill from his pocket,
and bringing it closer to the light, he began to read it, slightly closing his
right eye. However, there was nothing remarkable in the play-bill: one of
Shakespeare's dramas was to be performed; the part of Hamlet was allotted to a
Mr. Matchaloff, and that of Ophelia, to Miss Assenkova, the other dramatis
personae were of indifferent reputation, and for that reason less interesting;
nevertheless, Tchichikoff read them all, and got even as far down the list as
the price of the pit and gallery, and discovered that the bill had been printed
in the governmental printing-office of the town. When he had perused the whole,
he turned the bill and examined the other side of it, to see if there was by
chance something more to read, but finding nothing, he wiped his eyes and folded
the bill carefully together, and then deposited it in his mahogany travelling
box, into which he was accustomed to put anything, and everything he could lay
hold of. The day, we imagine, was concluded with a plate of cold veal and ham, a
bottle of sour Crimea-wine, and in a sound night's rest--all in one breath--as
we express ourselves in some of the extensive towns of the broad Russian Empire.
The whole of the following day was devoted to paying visits. Tchichikoff went
out to pay his _devoirs_ to all the important officers and _employÃ©s_ of the
town. With hat in hand, he waited upon the Lord-Lieutenant, who, on closer
inspection, proved to bear a great resemblance to Tchichikoff himself, for he
was neither too stout nor too thin; but he wore the decoration for merit of St.
Anne round his neck, and it was whispered about that he might shortly be
honoured with a presidential star; however, he was a good-natured man, and even
sometimes found leisure and pleasure to assist his lady in embroidering upon
canvass. Tchichikoff next went to present himself to the Vice-Governor, the
Procurator, the Presiding Magistrate, the Commissary of Police, the Public
Contractor-General, the Inspectors of the Imperial manufactories--our memory
fails us, and we regret it; but in excuse we may state that it is rather
difficult to remember the different grades of the all-powerful of this wicked
world; it will therefore suffice to say, that our traveller displayed an unusual
activity as regarded the visits he paid on that particular day. We will conclude
a notice of them, by stating that he even went so far in the marks of his
civilities, as not to forget to pay his compliments to the Inspector of the
Surgical division and the Town-architect. When he had performed all these
obligations, he was still sitting and musing in his britchka, and meditating
whether he had not omitted any one; but really, there were no more officers of
the crown to whom he could have shown his attentions. In his conversation with
these omnipotent personages, he contrived, very cleverly, too, to say to each of
them separately something either laudatory or complimentary. To the Lord-
Lieutenant he insinuated the flattering observation, that the entrance into his
Lord-Lieutenancy was like that into Paradise, and that the roads were everywhere
even and smooth as velvet, and that those governments which appoint so
trustworthy managers merit the highest praise. To the Commissary of Police he
expressed his admiration of the watchfulness and the civility of the policemen
under his orders, and in his conversation with the Vice-Governor and the
Presiding Magistrate, who had no higher rank than simply "councillors of state,"
he made an adroit mistake by addressing them twice as "your excellency," which
of course pleased and flattered them amazingly. The results of his praiseworthy
attentions were, that the Lord-Lieutenant immediately honoured him with an
invitation for that same day to an evening party _en famille_, whilst the other
officers of the crown invited him, the one to dinner, another to a game of
whist, a third asked him, as a favour, to come and take a cup of tea, and so
forth. About himself, our friend Tchichikoff obviously avoided saying much, and
if he spoke of himself at all, it was but in very general terms indeed, and with
an undeniable modesty; his conversation, in such instances, assumed rather more
of a learned phraseology and expression. Thus he would remark, for instance,
that he was the most insignificant worm that crept over the surface of this
world of trouble and deception, and therefore quite unworthy to be an object of
particular notice; that he had seen much, and acquired a great deal of
experience during his life; that he had struggled and suffered in the service
for the just cause; that he had many enemies, some of them even capable of
preying on his very vitals; and that now, exhausted by fruitless contests, he
was longing for tranquillity, and in search of a modest corner, where he might
pass the remainder of his career in quiet and retirement; and, finally, that in
passing through this beautiful town, he considered it to be his bounden duty to
testify his respect and admiration to the magistrates of the place by waiting
upon them. This was about all that the _Ã©lite_ of Smolensk could learn touching
the strange face that had arrived within the walls of the town, and which
strange face did not fail to show itself that very same evening at the _rÃ©union_
of the Lord-Lieutenant. The preparations for this evening party occupied our
hero considerably above two hours, for he devoted such unusual care and
attention to his toilette as, we venture to say, is perhaps seldom witnessed.
Having enjoyed a short but sound after-dinner nap, he ordered fresh water to be
brought in to him; he then began to wash very carefully both his cheeks, using
soap very freely, and putting his tongue against each of them in turn--to
tighten the skin, no doubt; then, taking the towel from off the shoulder of the
officious head-waiter, he commenced rubbing and drying his full face, beginning
from behind his ears, yet he did not do so without sneezing twice, and directly
into the face of the clever head-waiter. Having performed this operation, he
took up his position before the looking-glass to adjust his shirt-front, and to
abbreviate two hairs which protruded from his nostrils, and soon after he was
shining in his glory and a dress coat of light coffee-brown colour with bronze
buttons. Thus tastefully and elegantly attired, he seated himself in his own
carriage, and drove off through the interminable and dimly-lighted streets. The
house of the Lord-Lieutenant, however, was illuminated as if for a regular ball;
all the carriages that arrived had their lights; two _gendarmes_ were
maintaining order in the entrance-hall; in the distance were heard the loud
yells of coachmen and footmen--in a word, all was as it ought to be. On entering
the reception-room and _salon_, Tchichikoff was obliged to close his eyes for a
moment, for the brilliancy of the lamps and lights, and the dresses and toilette
of the ladies, were literally bewildering. All was one blaze of light. Black
dress-coats were flying about in all directions, separately and in heaps, as
flies will do around a sugar-loaf in the middle of a hot day in July, when the
grumbling old housekeeper is cutting it into square, sparkling pieces before an
open window; little children, if any, will gather around her, and watch with
intense interest and curiosity the movements of her bony hand, raising in
measured time the active hammer, whilst the airy brigade of flies, carried along
by a whispering zephyr, approach her fearlessly as conquerors, and, taking
advantage of the rays of the sun, which dazzle and dim her sight, besiege the
tempting bits in small and large divisions. As they have been already abundantly
nourished by the dainties of a fine summer, and at each flight desert some rich
meal for another, they do not descend upon the sugar to feed, but come there
with the intention of showing themselves, of parading up and down upon the sweet
heaps, of rubbing their fore or hind legs against one another, or of performing
the same process with their airy wings, and again stretching them out, and
scratching their little heads, then turn round and fly away, only to return
again, after joining a new and perhaps more numerous detachment. Tchichikoff had
not yet recovered from similar effects and reflections, when he found himself
surrounded and soon after arm-in-arm with the Lord-Lieutenant, who introduced
him at once to his lady. But even here our new guest did not lose his
countenance; he said something complimentary, suitable to the circumstance, and
very _Ã  propos_ for a man of his--the middle age--of a rank neither too exalted
nor too insignificant. When the dancers took up their positions for a first set
of quadrilles, the non-dancers were obliged to fall back towards the wall.
Tchichikoff was among them, and did as they did by putting his arms behind him
_Ã  la NapolÃ©on_, and for about two minutes he appeared to pay the greatest
attention to what was passing before him. Many of the ladies were dressed with
good taste, and in the latest fashion, while others again displayed robes and
jewels, such as could only be got in the shops of a provincial town. The
gentlemen also, here as elsewhere, could be divided into two distinct classes:
to the first belonged those who were tall, slender and thin, and who are always
found buzzing around the fair sex; some of them even were of the same
description as those we are wont to see in the _salons_ at St. Petersburg; they
wore their whiskers in the same studied and carefully-brushed manner, or had the
oval of their faces carefully and neatly shaved; they were familiar with the
same easy manners in presence of ladies, and they also spoke French fluently;
they knew how to amuse and make the ladies laugh whether they liked it or not,
just exactly as the fashionables do in the imperial capital. The second class
was composed of bulky and stout men, such as our friend Tchichikoff, that is to
say, of the middle size, who could neither be called too stout or too slender.
This latter description of gentlemen was always anxiously engaged in avoiding
too close a proximity with the fair sex, and looking about right and left with
the intention of espying, if possible, whether the servants of their host had
not already prepared a green cloth table for a game of whist. Their faces were
round as a full moon; upon some of them pimples and warts were visible; others
again displayed the marks of small-pox; and as for their hair, they did not wear
it in curls, brushed _Ã  la Titus_, or cut _Ã  la diable m'emporte_, as the French
call it; their hair was neatly arranged or smoothly brushed down; and as for
their features, they were rather round and strongly marked. Such men as we have
described were the right honourable dignitaries of the town of Smolensk. It is a
curious fact that men of such frame know better how to manage their little
affairs in this world of trouble and disappointment than those who are tall,
slender or thin. Slender men are appointed in Russia--perhaps also elsewhere--as
special commissioners, or are generally selected for such an office; they are to
be met with, here, there and everywhere, somehow or another. Their existence is
rather too easy, airy, and not at all calculated to be depended upon. Stout men,
on the contrary, never accept doubtful or ambiguous appointments. They all grasp
at something more substantial; and if they take up a position in life, it always
proves to be a safe and a profitable one, and though the foundation may
sometimes shake under their weight, they themselves are not to be unseated. They
hate outward display and refinements; their coats may perhaps not be of the best
fit or the latest fashion like those of the slender gentlemen, but in
compensation, their money bags are filled with the blessings of providence. The
slender man may, after three or four years of extravagance, not have a single
serf to mortgage at the Imperial Bank, whilst the stout man's glance is calm and
satisfied, for somehow or another, he has saved sufficient to buy a modest
cottage in some snug corner of the town, of course in the name of his wife--this
attracts less attention, and is done for greater safety; for, in another snug
corner of the same town we find another comfortable house belonging to the same
stout man; also, at a later date, he builds a villa in the environs, and finally
makes the acquisition of a whole estate with all its appurtenances. Thus then
the stout man, having served God and the Emperor, and gained universal esteem,
retires from public service, leaves town for his estate, and becomes a farmer, a
landowner, a real Russian gentleman, a regular, what we call in Russia, _bread
and salt man_--he lives and he lives well indeed. But when he has done living,
then come again his slender heirs; and in the Russian fashion, they spend in a
race all the wealth, goods and chattels of their stout parent. CHAPTER III. We
will not attempt to conceal from our reader that reflections like those which
concluded the last chapter preoccupied the mind of our friend Tchichikoff, at
the time when he was casting his eyes around the company before him; the
consequence was, that after mature consideration, he closed in with the ranks of
the stout men, where he met with faces he was already acquainted with--the
Procurator with his dark and heavy eyebrows, who was continually winking his
left eye, as if he meant to say, "Follow me into the other room, my friend, and
there will I tell you something." However, he was a serious and sober-minded
man; next was the Commissary of Police, a middle-sized man, but sharp and acute,
and with all that a philosopher; the Presiding Magistrate, a very judicious and
amiable man, who was met by every one with much affability, and treated like an
old acquaintance. Tchichikoff bowed low to all of them in turn, though rather
lower than they had done, but not without something pleasing in his peculiar
mode of salutation. In this group of men he also made the acquaintance of Mr.
Maniloff, a landowner of agreeable and polite manner, and of Mr. Sobakevitch,
also a landed proprietor, who at first sight appeared of rather stiff, if not of
clumsy carriage, and who, whilst replying to the civilities of Tchichikoff,
accidentally trod upon his toe, saying at the same time, "I beg your pardon."
After these introductions, he was presented with a playing card, and invited to
join a game of whist, which he accepted as a matter of course, with his usual
bow of politeness. The players took their seats around the green table, which
they did not leave until suppertime. All conversation was strictly prohibited,
as usually happens when the mind is given up to serious occupations. Although
the Postmaster was generally a talkative person, yet, from the instant he felt
the cards in his hands, he ceased to be so, and his face assumed the expression
of a meditating philosopher. He compressed his upper lip upon the lower one, and
kept them in that position nearly during the whole time the game lasted. If he
played a court card, he could not help knocking audibly with the knuckles of his
hand upon the table, and whispering at the same time, if it was a queen, "off
starts the pope's wife:" if it was a king, "here goes the mouzhik from Tambov!"
To this the Presiding Magistrate would coolly reply; "And I will have her! And I
shall pull his beard." At the same time, and whilst playing a trump card, or
knocking against the table, various expressions were made use of, such as, "Ah!
_bilÃ¡ ne bilÃ¡_! I don't know what to play, so I come out with a diamond;" or
simply exclamations of, "Hearts! heartlings! spades! spadelings! club!
clublings!" and a variety of other words, epithets and names, with which they
had christened in their own immediate circles the various colours of the playing
cards. At the termination of their game, they had as usual in such cases, a few
disputes, which they settled in rather a loud voice. Our guest and friend, Mr.
Tchichikoff, of course took part in the dispute, but he did so with considerable
ability, and so well, that though every one heard him protesting, yet all were
obliged to agree that he did so with very good taste indeed. He never said, "you
played this or that card," but "I believe you were pleased to play the ace," and
"I had the honour of covering your knave, Sir," or something equally civil. And
in order to convince his opponents still more upon the subject of their
argument, he invariably presented to them his silver snuff-box, on the bottom of
which they could perceive tonquin-beans which were placed there on purpose to
increase the flavour of his snuff. The attention of our stranger was
particularly attracted by the two landed proprietors, Maniloff and Sobakevitch,
of whom we have already had occasion to make mention. He availed himself of the
first favourable opportunity to take the Presiding Magistrate and the Postmaster
aside, and tried to learn from them all the information they could give him
about these two gentlemen. A few questions and answers which passed between
them, showed that our hero not only possessed the propensities of an inquisitive
disposition, but also cherished a wish for positive information; because he
first of all inquired how many serfs each of these landowners possessed, and in
what suburbs their estates were situated, and then only bethought himself of
asking the Christian names of those in whom he appeared to take such a lively
interest. This mode of taking an interest in persons is rather unusual in
Russia, for we always begin our inquiries by asking for the Christian names of
father and son first, and then only let our real intentions peep out. However,
notwithstanding the omission of this general rule, Tchichikoff succeeded in a
very brief time indeed, in completely captivating the good graces of the two
gentlemen-farmers. Maniloff, who was yet in the prime of life, with eyes as
sweet as sugar, and which he was continually winking when he laughed, was
actually charmed with our friend's person and manners. He pressed his hand
warmly and long, and begged of him most urgently to do him the honour of
visiting him on his estate, which according to him was not more than fifteen
wersts from the gates of the town. To this very polite invitation, Tchichikoff
replied by a very civil inclination of the head, and a truly affectionate
pressure of the hand, adding that he would not only be happy to do so, but that
he considered it even to be his sacred duty to do himself that honour.
Sobakevitch also invited our guest, but he did so in a rather laconic manner,
simply saying: "And don't forget me;" whilst he attempted a bow, accompanied by
a scratch with his left foot; this manoeuvre drew the attention of Tchichikoff
to his feet, which were shod in such a pair of gigantic boots, that we really
believe it would be impossible to meet with a couple of feet proportioned to
their size, especially now-a-days, when even Russians begin to look more at
shape and fashion. On the following day, Tchichikoff went to dine and spend the
evening with the Commissary of Police, where at three o'clock in the afternoon
they sat down to a game of whist, and never rose till two hours after midnight.
Here, however, he had the advantage of making the acquaintance of Mr. Nosdrieff,
also an owner of some estates, a man of about thirty years of age, and of a very
lively and volatile disposition, who, after three or four words, treated our
stranger _en frÃ¨re_. With the Commissary of Police, Nosdrieff appeared to be
also very familiar and on fraternal terms; when they took their seats for the
purpose of playing their long game, however, the Commissary of Police and the
Procurator had the habit of very carefully examining his tricks, and followed
very attentively every card he played. Upon the following day, Tchichikoff went
to pay a visit, and remained to tea at the chief magistrate's, who received his
guests in a dressing gown, which looked somewhat greasy and worn out. Among the
company there were also two ladies, whose names our guest did not catch. He also
called in the evening upon the Vice-Governor; he dined at the great dinner of
the public contractor, and at the modest table of the Procurator, whose dinner
must have cost a great deal; and he supped at the Mayor's, whose supper was
worth the two dinners. In a word, Tchichikoff had no two hours time to stay at
home, so much was he engaged in town, and if he returned to his hotel, it was
only for the purpose of taking necessary rest. In all respects, our traveller
appeared to be welcome everywhere, for he knew how to make himself comfortable
in all positions; in short, he proved a man of considerable experience and tact,
as well as a complete man of the world. It did not matter to him what question
or argument was brought forward; he never seemed embarrassed or at a loss how to
sustain the subject; if horses and races were on the _tapis_, he knew how to
give his opinion on races in general, and horse-breeding in particular; if dogs
were praised, he was not at a loss to say something about the perfections of the
canine race; if the proceedings of the Imperial Courts of Inquiry were
discussed, he proved that these cases, as well as the general conduct of the
Imperial _employÃ©s_, were familiar to him; if the game of billiards was brought
forward, even upon the billiard-table he did not give a miss; if benefactors
were praised, he also knew how to acknowledge their merits, even with apparent
tears in his eyes; if comments upon distilleries and spirits were expressed, he
also knew how to find fault with the spirits of wine, &c.; if the indiscretions
of custom-house officers and inspectors were complained of, even them he knew
how to judge and condemn, just as if he had himself been a custom-house officer
or inspector. But it was remarkable that he knew how to express and clothe his
comments and opinions in such a pleasing and unpretending manner that he never
compromised his position. His voice was neither too loud, nor did he whisper, he
spoke exactly as a man ought to speak; in a word, you might have turned him any
way, and still you would have found him a gentleman, and of course all the
Imperial _employÃ©s_ of the higher ranks in the town of Smolensk were pleased and
satisfied with the appearance and manners of the new and _distinguÃ©_ personage
who had arrived among them. The Lord-Lieutenant's opinion of Tchichikoff was,
that he believed him a man of strictly honourable intentions; the Procurator
pronounced him a very practical man; the colonel of the garrison said that he
was a learned gentleman; the Presiding Magistrate was convinced that he was a
man of deep knowledge and great modesty; the Commissary of Police affirmed that
Tchichikoff was very civil and amiable; but his wife proclaimed him to be the
most amiable and well-bred man she had seen for some time. And even Sobakevitch,
who seldom had a good opinion of any one, nevertheless, after his return home
from town late at night, and whilst undressing and preparing to retire, said to
his wife, a slender lady of not very prepossessing appearance: "My darling
heart, I have spent the evening at his Excellency's the Lord-Lieutenant, I have
dined with the Commissary of Police, and have made the acquaintance of Pavel
Ivanovitch Tchichikoff, a Councillor of State; an exceedingly amiable
gentleman!" whereupon the conjugal couple fell asleep. Thus our hero had gained
golden opinions from all manner of men in the good town of Smolensk, without in
any way making known anything which might inform them as to the immediate object
of his visit to that town. He was equally reserved as to his antecedents, but we
fortunately are well acquainted with them, and for a better comprehension of the
following story, we think it will be advisable to let our readers into the
secret of Mr. Tchichikoff's birth, parentage, and education. CHAPTER IV. It is a
very dubious circumstance whether the hero we have selected for our story will
meet with much favour at the hands of our readers. Ladies he is sure not to
please--and this assertion we advance confidentially--because ladies expect a
hero to be a perfect creation, and if he present but the slightest mental or
corporeal imperfection, then, woe to the author! However carefully he may
describe his character, and were he even to draw his portrait brighter than a
crystal mirror, his exertions, his talents, will be valueless, his time and
labour thrown away. The very corpulence and middle-age of Tchichikoff are
calculated to injure him from the very outset: corpulence is unpardonable in a
hero, and many fair ladies will turn away in disgust, and say, "Fie! how ugly,
how very uninteresting!" Alas! all this is but too well known to the author, for
the more he has looked about him, the more he has found it the case that perfect
heroes are the only ones that meet with success in this world. On glancing at
all the productions of foreign genius, he has never met with any but fair and
perfect heroes and heroines, and even in "Uncle Tom's Cabin" he was astonished
at finding none but youthful, fair, and virtuous sufferers. These, then, are the
characters that have met, and still seem to meet with unbounded success in the
reading world, though they have been, in our humble opinion, hunted down as it
were with a Russian knout, ever since romance became fashionable. Our task, as a
Russian author, is a very difficult one indeed, and especially so at the present
moment; and unless we can lay before our reader something unmistakeably
original, we ought not to have ventured on it. However, trusting in indulgence,
and boldly asserting that the perfect and virtuous heroes are completely used
up, we beg to introduce an _imposing_ hero. Dark and humble is the origin of our
friend Tchichikoff. His parents he knew belonged to a lower degree of nobility,
but whether of hereditary or acquired rank, he was profoundly ignorant; there
was no family resemblance between them; at least, such was the opinion of a near
relative of his mother's, a woman who was present at his birth. She exclaimed,
as she took the new born babe in her arms, "He has not at all turned out what I
expected he would be! He ought at least to have resembled his mother," which
would have been even better, but he was born simply as the proverb says, "not
like his father nor like his mother, but like a passing stranger." His early
life presented but acid-tasteing incidents and recollections, as if regarded
through a pane of glass frozen over and covered with snow; he had no friend, no
play companion in his early youth. He greeted the world in a country-house with
low windows, which were never opened either in winter or summer; his father was
a sickly-looking man, who wore a long kaftan or surtout, felt shoes on his bare
feet, kept continually heaving deep sighs, walked up and down his room with
evident preoccupation, and used to spit frequently into a spittoon standing in a
corner; he also sat often uninterruptedly upon a wooden chair before a table
with a pen in his hand and some ink on his fingers, and even upon his lips, his
eyes fatigued by eternal copyings. "Never tell a falsehood, fear God and pray
for the Emperor, respect your superiors and cherish your benefactors," were the
sentences and exhortations to which our hero had to listen while still a child
and incapable of judging their importance; the continual and uniform noise of
his father's feet clad in their felt shoes, and dragging across the floor,
accompanied by the well-known but harsh voice of his parent, saying, "You are
noisy again, you little rogue!" This is the _triste_ picture of his early
childhood, of which he had now scarcely preserved a faint recollection. But in
life all changes unexpectedly; on a fine and sunshiny morning in the spring,
when snow had disappeared from the fields and the roads, the father took his son
and seated himself with him in a modest telega, drawn by a small horse of the
race called 'the hawk' by Russian horse dealers; this open equipage was guided
by a little hunchbacked coachman, the only representative of his family and the
only serf Tchichikoff's father possessed, as he was also the only servant to do
all the work in his master's house. This hawk-race horse dragged them along the
high road for more than two days and a half; they slept on the road, crossed the
brooks and rivers, fed on cold fish pies and roast mutton, and arrived only late
on the third day in the small town of Bobruisk, their destination. Before the
eyes of the little boy, glittered in unexpected magnificence the houses, shops,
and streets of the little town, and so much was he at first bewildered by what
he saw that he involuntarily opened his mouth widely, and kept it so for some
time. His ecstacy was, however, interrupted by the quadruped hawk, falling with
the telega into a deep hole, which was the entrance into a narrow lane, which
led, as they advanced, down a steep declivity and was buried in mud on either
side; for a long time the poor hawk-horse kept exerting itself and kicking about
on all fours, assisted by both the hunchbacked coachman and the master himself,
until at last the strength of all three combined brought the vehicle out of the
hole, and before a small modest-looking house, with two scrubby poplars before
and a small insignificant garden behind. This house was inhabited by a relation
of Tchichikoff's mother, an old trembling woman much advanced in years, and who,
notwithstanding her age, went every morning to market, and on her return from
there, used to dry her wet stockings by holding them up and close to the
samovar! When she beheld the little boy, she took him on her knees, clapped his
rosy cheeks with both her hands, and seemed exceedingly pleased with his
childish corpulence. With this original and affectionate woman he was to remain
for the future, and go daily to the parish-school of the town of Bobruisk. After
passing the night with them, his father left them the next morning and started
at once on his road home again. At their separation no tears flowed from the
parental eyes, but he presented his son with half a rouble, a few caresses and
what is more valuable still, with the following exhortations:

"Now then my boy, Pavluschka, study and learn, do not be foolish nor become a
good-for-nothing boy, but try as much as possible to please and always obey your
masters. If you obey your superiors; then, whether you have been successful or
not in your studies, if Providence refuses you natural talents, you will still
be able to get on in the world and go-ahead, even before all others. Have little
or nothing to do with gay companions, they will teach you nothing good; but if
you cannot avoid making acquaintances, then he upon friendly terms only with
those richer than yourself, for they might be later of use to you by their
influence. Do not drink or play foolish tricks by standing treat, but conduct
yourself in such a manner that others may treat and compliment you. Above all,
be careful and economic and spare and gather up all your pence, for money is the
most influential thing in this world. Your friends and gay companions will be
the first to betray and desert you in case of need, but the money you have saved
will never betray you in whatever circumstances you may find yourself placed.
You can do much and succeed in everything in this world provided you have
money." After concluding his instructions and advice, the father parted with his
son, took his seat on his telega, and the quadruped-hawk trotted along the high
road towards home, and from that time the lowly little boy never saw his fond
parent again; but his parting words and advice remained deeply impressed in his
innocent soul. Young Pavluschka went to school, immediately, on the following
day. Any particular talent, for any particular science, was not observable in
the boy; he distinguished himself more by assiduous application and orderly
behaviour: but his want of talent, was counterbalanced by a mind full of
practical wisdom. He at once understood and appreciated his peculiar position,
and behaved in regard to his companions in such a manner, that they not only
treated him always, but even gave him an excellent opportunity to reserve the
greatest portion of the sweet-meats and knick-knacks, to sell at a later date,
on very advantageous terms, to the very donors. Whilst still a child, he
possessed sufficient strength of mind to refuse himself, and abstain from
everything. Of the half-rouble given to him on the departure of his father, he
had not spent a single copek, on the contrary, at the end of the year the sum at
his disposal had increased considerably, showing nearly an incredible result of
his carefulness and speculative mind. He commenced his speculation by making an
hussar on horseback, out of wax, and sold him uncommonly advantageously. After
this, his first success, he ventured sometime later into a variety of other
speculations; such as buying honey-cakes in the marketplace, which he took with
him to school and seated himself near those of his school-fellows, who were the
richest, and as soon as he saw them moving about on their forms, with evident
uneasiness, he took it for granted that his friend felt the pang of hunger, and
immediately passed him under the bench a honey-cake or a copek-loaf, for which
the other was but too glad to pay him at once, in order to satisfy the cravings
of his boyish appetite. He passed nearly two months at home devoting all his
time and attention to the education of a mouse, for which he had made with his
own little hands a wooden cage, and at last he had succeeded so far as to make
the little animal sit up on its hind legs, lie down and get up again when
commanded, and ultimately sold it very advantageously indeed. When he had
economised about five roubles, he got himself a small bag, which he had sown
himself, put the round sum of five into it, tied the bag up, and began to
collect his rising capital in another. As regards his conduct towards his
teacher, he behaved himself, if possible, with even more wisdom. It must be
observed that the master of that school was extraordinarily fond of quietude and
good conduct, and could not bear the sight of intelligent and lively boys; he
imagined that they would infallibly laugh at him. It was sufficient for any of
the more intelligent boys to show their talent or make the master guess that
they possessed some, even if it was betrayed by a slight movement with the eye-
brows, it would have been sufficient to attract upon them his anger and
resentment. He would persecute and punish the intelligent boy with unrelenting
severity. "'Twill cure you of your pretentions and want of respect, you saucy
boy, and bring you back to your right senses; I'll make you kneel down--you
shall have a day's fasting!" And the poor boy, not able to account for his
punishment, had to kneel down and fast nearly every day. "Disposition and
talent! all that is stuff and nonsense!" he used to say: "I only look at your
conduct. I will give any boy good marks for all sciences, no matter whether he
know even the alpha of it, provided his conduct is good and praiseworthy; but
wherever I observe a spirit of insubordination and inclination to ridicule, I'll
give that boy a nought, whether he be talented enough to put a Solomon in his
pocket!" Thus spoke the master in the public school of Bobruisk, to his pupils,
no doubt because he had himself been brought up in an establishment where the
silent system was carried to such a perfection that a fly would have been heard
flying across the school-room; where not one of the scholars in the course of
the whole year had had ever any occasion to cough or blow his nose, and when not
even the slightest noise ever betrayed that there were any scholars assembled.
Tchichikoff was also successful herein, and at once understood the animus of his
school-master, and in what his general conduct towards him ought to consist. He
never winked once, nor did he raise his eye-brows during the whole time the
school hours lasted, however mischievously his school-fellows pinched and
annoyed him; scarcely had he heard the bell ring as a sign for their dismissal,
when he rushed forward before anyone else could have a chance, to hand his
master his three-cornered headdress; when he had shown him this attention, he
generally hastened to leave the school immediately, and always managed so well,
as to meet his master at least three times on his road home, in order to have an
opportunity to salute him, and take his cap off in the most respectful manner.
His manÅuvres with his school-master were crowned with complete success. During
the whole time of his being at the school, he always received the best marks,
and on leaving it he was dismissed with the most flattering testimonials, and
presented with a book with gold edges, and the following inscription in gold
letters: "For praiseworthy application, and meritorious conduct." CHAPTER V.

When Tchichikoff left the school, he made his appearance in the world as a young
man of very prepossessing appearance, and with a chin that already had begun to
require the services of a razor. At the very same period he lost in quick
succession his fond parents. The inheritance left to him consisted of four worn-
out flannels, two old and irretrievable coats lined with squirrel skins, and a
trifling sum of money. His father had been, as it seemed, an excellent adviser
as regarded economy, and the principles connected with it, but had done little
himself to cultivate that virtue, for the little he left his son was very
unimportant indeed. Tchichikoff sold at once the modest house and the small
stretch of land attached to it for a thousand roubles, and took his hunchbacked
servant and his then two little boy serfs Selifan and Petruschka with him to the
town of Pskov, where he intended to establish himself, and enter the service.
During the time of his preparations for departure from Bobruisk, his old school-
master, who had been so very fond of silence and good conduct, had been
dismissed in his turn from the public school, either for his stupidity or some
similar reason. The poor master, overwhelmed with grief at his disgrace,
addicted himself to drinking, and at last could not even satisfy that
inclination from the want of the necessary funds; ill in health, without a crust
of bread or any assistance, he hid himself and his sorrows in a miserable cold
hovel. Some of his former scholars, especially those who had displeased him so
particularly, on account of their malicious intelligence, when they heard of his
pitiable condition, immediately raised a subscription in his favour among them,
depriving themselves even of many little necessaries to assist the poor ruined
man. Pavel Ivanovitch Tchichikoff was the only one who lacked generosity; he
contributed the smallest silver coin of the realm, adding that he could afford
no more; his colleagues refused to accept the donation, and called him a
miserable specimen of selfishness personified. The poor school-master, when he
heard of this trait of one whom he considered his best scholar, covered his face
with both hands, and burst into a flood of tears, which trickled down his pale
and meagre cheeks like shot, until his eyes became dim like those of a crying
child. "On my death-bed Heaven has condemned me to shed tears over a serpent,"
exclaimed he at last, in a feeble voice, and then added again: "Oh, Pavel
Pavluschka! it is thus, then, that men can change! and when I think of it again,
what an excellent boy he used to be, always of an exemplary conduct, no vestige
of malice in him! He has deceived me, cruelly deceived me!" And hereupon the
instructor of Tchichikoff's early youth breathed his last. Nevertheless, it
cannot be said that the nature of our hero was of a harsh and unfeeling
description, or to such a degree insensible that he did not feel pity and
sympathy for the sufferings of others; he felt the one as well as the other, he
would have been even glad to alleviate the wants of his friends, provided they
would not prove expensive, nor oblige him to break into that sum of money, which
he had laid aside with the intention of not touching it under any circumstances,
for he bore in mind his father's advice: "Take care and economise your copeks,
or you will come to a bad end." However, he had no particular attachment to
money, for the sake of money, he was not ruled by a stingy feeling of saving,
nor was he a niggard. No, he was not animated with an insatiable desire for
wealth, for the sake of keeping it hidden; life opened itself before him with
all its attractions for a youthful mind; he wished to possess a beautifully
furnished house, carriages and horses, and numerous serfs and servants, such
were the thoughts that begun early to pre-occupy his mind. And it was in order
to obtain all these wishes and comforts in the course of time and his life, that
he economised every copek he possibly could, and that he strictly refused
himself in his earlier years all pleasures, or to others any assistance.
Whenever he happened to see a wealthy parvenu drive along the streets, showing
off a splendid droschki, and richly caparisoned horses, he would stop short and
admire him with an air of envy, and forget himself in the sight before him, then
suddenly recovering as if from a dream, add: "Some years ago you were perhaps a
serf, you have purchased your freedom, and are rich; but for all that I see your
origin by the peculiar cut of your hair!" And the sight of all those that
appeared to him to enjoy fortune and comforts, produced upon him a sorrowful
impression to a certain degree inexplicable to himself. When he had left his
school, and disposed of his trifling estate, he would not allow himself even the
least relaxation, but was full of anxiety to begin his task in life at once, and
enter the service in a civil capacity without delay. However, notwithstanding
his excellent testimonials, he obtained with great difficulty a modest situation
in a government office. And heaven knows that in a country like Russia, the
greatest talent is worth little without influential protection to back it! The
place he held in the government office was an insignificant one which brought
him an annual revenue of no more than forty or fifty roubles. But he was
determined to work hard, to overcome all difficulties, and to succeed. And,
really, perseverance, patience, and self-denial were qualities which he revealed
in an incredible perfection. From the early morning until late at night, never
feeling the fatigues of body and mind, he continued, to apply himself to his
writings and copies; he never went home, but slept upon the benches and tables
of the government office, he used to dine often even with the porter and
servants; but with all that he knew how to preserve cleanliness and a
respectable appearance in his dress, to give a pleasant expression to his face,
and even assume some semblance of nobility in his movements and manners. It must
be observed that the official servants of the crown distinguish themselves
generally by neglected, and in every respect disadvantageous appearance and
manners. And this was especially the case with the colleagues of Tchichikoff;
the faces of some of them looked really like badly-baked bread; the one had a
cheek all on one side, another a chin out of proportion, a third was gifted with
an upper lip as large as a bladder, which even used to burst now and then, in a
word, they were far from being handsome. They used to speak in a harsh and
unpleasant tone of voice, as if they had conspired to cut some ones' throat;
they were addicted to pay frequent tributes to Bacchus, proving by such an
inclination that the Sclavonic race was still addicted to the worship of the
heathen gods; they did not even mind making their appearance in the office
tolerably inebriated, which spread an unpleasant perfume all around the place,
and which was far from being aromatic. In the midst of such an assembly of
_employÃ©s_ of the Imperial Government, it was impossible that such a man as
Tchichikoff should remain unnoticed and undistinguished; presenting, as he did,
in every respect such a striking contrast as regarded his personal appearance,
general bearing, and above all other good qualities, total abstemiousness from
any intoxicating drink, as if he had secretly joined some teetotal brotherhood
in England. Notwithstanding all these advantages in his favour, his path to
glory was a very difficult one indeed: he happened to be the under-clerk of a
chancery-judge, an elderly man, who was the very image of insensibility and
sternness; always the same, unapproachable, whose face had never been wrinkled
by a smile, whose lips had never whispered even an inquiry after another fellow-
creature's health. Nobody could have said, that he ever knew this man, or saw
him different from what he appeared daily, whether in the open street, or in his
own lonely house; if he had shown but once a slight interest in anything, if he
could have but once forgotten himself and his sternness by getting intoxicated,
and then have betrayed a smile; if he could but for once have given himself up
to a mad gaiety like the highwayman, who, after the capture of a rich booty
gives way to intemperance and debauchery--but no, there was not a vestige of
anything of this sort, in this granite man. There seemed absolutely nothing in
the man; he was not a villain, and yet he possessed no virtues, and something
awful seemed to replace the visible absence of all else. The hard, marble-like
features of his face, without any striking irregularities, presented no harmony;
his harsh features were in an unpleasant contradiction with themselves. The
traces and little holes left by small-pox which covered his whole face, were the
only striking peculiarities which classed it among the number of those faces,
upon which, according to a popular saying, the devil had been threshing peas
over-night. Now, although it appeared, at first sight, as if human ingenuity
would fail to ingratiate itself with such a being, nevertheless Tchichikoff made
the attempt. In the commencement of this superhuman design, he began by trying
to anticipate his slightest wishes in the merest trifles; examined most
carefully every one of the quills, with which he was in the habit of writing,
and after having made them as it were to pattern, he took good care to place
them always ready to his hand; blew and swept from his table the snuff as well
as the dust; supplied him with a new rag for the use of his inkstand; found out
the place where he used to keep his official cap, a most filthy affair, such as
has, perhaps, been rarely seen before, and took good care to place it constantly
close to him at the last moment of his sitting in the office; brushed his back,
if the old man had happened to rub off the whitewash from the wall; but all the
attentions remained without being in the slightest degree noticed, just as if
they had never happened to be shown to him. At last, however, Tchichikoff
succeeded in putting his nose as it were into the household and domestic life of
the old original, and discovered that he had an adult daughter, with a face
resembling that of her father, that is to say, a face with traces upon it, as if
the devil had been threshing peas on it over-night. Upon this quarter he now
determined on directing his attacks. When he had ascertained to which church she
was in the habit of going on Sunday, he watched her enter, and took up his
position exactly opposite to her, carefully dressed, and with a stiff collar,
and neatly-plaited shirt-front. By this stratagem he ultimately succeeded; the
stem chancery-judge began to waver, and gave him an invitation to tea; and,
before the other officials had yet found time to look around them, Tchichikoff
had brought matters to such a satisfactory conclusion for himself, that he soon
saw himself established in the house, and living with the old chancery-judge. He
had rendered himself a useful and indispensable servant to the old man, and went
to market for him to purchase meal and sugar for him; towards his daughter he
behaved as if she were his bride; as for the old judge, he had accustomed
himself to call him dear papa, and ever kissed his hand. All the officials of
the judge now expected that at the end of the month of February, before the long
and general fast began, their friend and colleague, Tchichikoff, would become
the happy and chosen husband of their superior's daughter. The stern and harsh
old judge now begun even to bestir himself in his favour and to push him
forward, and really, in a short time after, Tchichikoff was himself promoted to
the vacant seat of a chancery-judge. With this success also, seemed to terminate
the principal aim of his intimacy with the stem old judge; because, scarcely had
he been appointed to his new office, when he secretly removed all his property
from the house of his patron, and on the following day he was already quite at
home in his new apartments. He ceased henceforth to call the old chancery-judge,
papa, nor did he ever after think of kissing his bony hand, and as for the
anticipated marriage with the judge's daughter, it was left to oblivion, and as
if such a subject had never been on the _tapis_. However, whenever he happened
to meet the old man in the street, he would always advance civilly towards him,
take him by the hand and invite him to a cup of tea at his house, so that the
old judge, notwithstanding his eternal sternness and inexplicable indifference
to anything generally, could not help shaking his grey head thoughtfully, and
murmuring in his beard: "He has deceived me, awfully deceived me, this child of
Satan!" CHAPTER VI. This was the most difficult passage during the whole course
of Tchichikoff's eventful career. Thenceforward his progress towards position
and fortune became easier, and in course of time he even became a man of some
importance and weight. He now began to display all those qualities that ensure
success in the world; agreeable in his manners, delicate in his actions, and
enterprising in business. Blessed in the possession of such indispensable and
valuable qualifications, he succeeded in a very short time in securing himself a
certain income and independent position, from which he knew how to derive
excellent advantages. It must be observed that at that particular time, and in
consequence of the bitter complaints that had reached the imperial ears about
the merciless exactions of the official _employÃ©s_ in the provinces of the
Empire, the Lord-Lieutenants of the various governments had received strict
injunctions to punish with the utmost severity the impudent impositions of the
imperial servants, and courts of inquiry were everywhere held for the purpose of
putting a stop to the sufferings of the people from these imperial blood-
suckers. These courts of inquiry did not in anyway alarm Tchichikoff, on the
contrary, he even knew how to derive advantages from this imperial ordinance,
and he furnished a striking proof of the ingenuity of the Russian spirit, which
is always prepared to find ways and means when necessity demands them. In order
to avoid any unpleasant consequences, he had adopted the following system: as
soon as a petitioner presented himself before him and proceeded to explain his
case, and put his hand into his pocket with the evident intention of producing
from there the requisite letter patent of recommendation, in order to obtain his
Excellency's the Prince Hovanskois' (as we call it familiarly) signature to his
document, "No, no," he used to say, with a smile on his countenance, whilst
stopping the egress of the generous hand, "you think, perhaps, that I--oh no, by
no means. It is our bounden duty, we are obliged to attend to your interest
without the slightest pretention to a private remuneration for our trouble. As
regards your application, you may rest tranquil and assured it shall be attended
to by to-morrow at latest. Allow me to request the favour of your address; you
need not even take the least trouble further about the matter, all your
documents shall be forwarded to your house." The enchanted petitioner returned
home quite in ecstacy, thinking to himself: "At last I have met an honest man
among our imperial _employÃ©s_, and I should be very glad to see more men of a
similar stamp among us. He is a real gem!" The delighted petitioner waits
patiently for a day, and then a second, and then a third day passes without his
business or application having been sent to his house as promised. He returns
again to the government office, and finds that his business has not been even
begun; he addresses himself to the invaluable gem. "Oh, I beg of you a thousand
pardons, my dear Sir!" says Tchichikoff, very politely, and affably laying hold
of both the hands of the disappointed petitioner, "but really, we had so very
much business on hand; however, by to-morrow you shall be attended to,
absolutely, by to-morrow, and most punctually, I can assure you, my dear Sir, I
feel quite ashamed at the delay!" And all this was said in the most winning
manner, and accompanied by the most civil courtesies. If, on such an occasion,
his morning gown (imperial _employÃ©s_ generally transact public business at
home, and in a very _dÃ©gagÃ©_ costume,) should accidentally unfold itself; his
hands were always prepared to cover up the folds and amend the _nÃ©gligÃ©_?
appearance. But, notwithstanding these civil assurances, the petitioner's
business was neither attended on the next day nor on the day following, nor even
on the next day following the day following. The disappointed petitioner began
to repent; can there be anything the matter? He at last comes to the conclusion,
that it has always been the custom to give a gratuity to the copying-clerks.
"And why should I not give a trifle to these poor fellows?" says he to a friend.
"I know but too well how miserably the government pays their services; I am
ready and willing to give them a couple of roubles, to be sure." "A couple of
roubles will never do; you will have to fork out a bank-note." "What! a bank-
note to copying-clerks?" demands again the astonished petitioner. "Why do you
seem surprised, or out of temper?" his friends ask him; "what you anticipate
will happen according to your intentions; the copying-clerks will receive a
couple of roubles, and the remainder of your bank-note will find its way into
the pocket of their superior." The perplexed and slow-minded petitioner strikes
his forehead with his hand, and is surprised at the changes in this world, and
the new polite customs that had suddenly sprung up among the imperial
_employÃ©s_. Formerly, a petitioner knew exactly what to do, and how to behave
himself: he had simply to present a ten-rouble note to the head employÃ©, and his
business was attended to; but now-a-day a twenty-five-rouble note seems scarcely
sufficient, and you have even to wait for a week before you can guess it. The
devil take the shameless civilities and nobility of the imperial _employÃ©s_!
Some time after his instalment in his new dignity, an excellent opportunity to
advance his fortunes presented itself to Tchichikoff; a committee was being
formed for the construction of a very extensive and capital government
storehouse. Tchichikoff found ways and means to be elected a member of it, and
soon proved himself to be one of the most active promoters. This committee began
its operations immediately. During six years, the committee busied itself about
the building: but, whether it was the harshness of the climate, or the fault of
proper material, the Crown building never rose above its foundations. Meanwhile,
and at the other end of the town, there sprung up, as it were from the ground,
houses built on the principles of modern architecture, and the individual
property of each member of the building-committee. These members now began to
enjoy the well-being of home comforts, and got married in quick succession. It
was then, and then only, that Tchichikoff began by degrees to emancipate himself
from the harsh laws of abstinence and pitiless privations which he had imposed
upon himself. It was only now that he ventured to relax from his long tasting,
and it seemed that he had not always been a stranger to the enjoyments of
comfort and general well-being, from which he had had sufficient strength of
mind to abstain during the years of his adolescence, when no man can pretend to
have been complete master of his passions. He now even went as far as to display
a few extravagant propensities, such as keeping a cook of some reputation, and
made the purchase of very fine Irish linen shirts. As for the cloth which he
wore, it was no longer of such inferior quality as was worn by the other
officials of the province; he began to bring into fashion different shades of
coffee and snuff-colours, and similar brownish tints; he made the acquisition of
a fine pair of carriage-horses, and used to drive about in a droschki and pair,
holding the reins of one of the horses himself, and making the horse bend his
neck into the shape of a ring; he also began to indulge in a fine Turkish sponge
to wash his face with, mixing his water profusely with Eau-de-Cologne; he even
went so far as to buy a peculiar kind of soap, which was very expensive, but
possessed the virtue to render the skin of his face smooth and velvety; he
already--

But suddenly--in the place of the former sleepy president of the building-
committee, a new chairman was appointed by the imperial ordinance: a military
man, severe and strict in his principles--a man who was an enemy to all
impositions upon the public as well as upon the Crown; in short, a detester of
falsehood in any shape. Immediately after the day of his arrival, he caused a
general consternation among the members of the building-committee by demanding a
report and an account of their proceedings, and found defalcations at every step
of his investigations; he also discovered and inspected the houses of modern
architecture. In consequence of all these discoveries, he assembled a general
meeting, and pushed his inquiries with the utmost diligence and severity. All
the _employÃ©s_ connected with the building-committee were at once dismissed the
service; their houses of modern architecture were confiscated for the benefit of
the Crown, and changed into benevolent institutions and public schools; all was
blown down, as it were, like castles in the air, and among the severest
sufferers was our friend Tchichikoff. His general countenance and his affable
manners, strange to say, displeased the new president at first sight; the exact
reason, Heaven only knew, sometimes such results will happen quite
unaccountably, but the fact remained the same--the new president could not
endure the sight of the old committee member. However, as he happened to be a
military man, it was not likely that he could know much, if anything, of the
ways and means of officers in the civil service; and in a very short time
indeed, and thanks to a respectable exterior, and the knowledge of applying
themselves to any and everything, other _employÃ©s_ found an opportunity of
ingratiating themselves in the good graces of the new president, and the new
honest and upright commander found himself soon in the hands of another and, if
possible, a more dishonest set of officials than the former, and of which fact
he had no opportunity of convincing himself; he was even much satisfied at
having at last met with honest men, such as the Crown ought always to employ,
and boasted of his own judgment in the choice he had made. His new _employÃ©s_
guessed and understood their chiefs character at once. Every one of the men who
were under his command, became desperate hunters after anything that bore the
slightest semblance to falsehood; everywhere, and under all circumstances, they
prosecuted untruth like a fisherman of the Volga would hunt after a fine
sturgeon; and they hunted after it with so much perseverance and success, that
in a very short time indeed every one found himself at the head of a capital of
a few thousand roubles. At that very same period, a number of the former
_employÃ©s_ of this same committee turned again upon the way of truth, and were
graciously received again in the service with their colleagues. But Tchichikoff,
notwithstanding his strenuous exertions to ingratiate himself again, and in
spite of the protection of his intimate friend, the private secretary of Prince
Hovanskoi, who had become the right-hand man of the new president of the
building-committee, he could not succeed in obtaining for him the most
insignificant appointment under the new manager of the imperial interest. The
president was a man of a peculiar character, though he was led by the nose (of
this fact he was of course unaware); he would persevere in his once fixed
opinion, provided it had presented itself to his mind and attention, and
whenever it had taken root in his head, it would remain fixed there like a nail;
nothing would ever be strong enough to extricate it from there, for he was frill
of tenacity. All that his friend, the private secretary of the Prince, could
possibly obtain for Tchichikoff, was the destruction of the sullied certificate
of his services as an _employÃ©_ in the building-committee; and even this favour
he could only extract from his superior by a representation in the most touching
terms of the pitiable position of Tchichikoff's family, which, by the bye, he
had the good fortune of counting among the things that were not in existence.
CHAPTER VII. "Well!" said Tchichikoff to himself, "it seems the bow could not
stand the stretching. Tears will not amend the fault; I must betake myself to
another task." And determined on beginning his career anew, he put on once more
the armour of patience, and again subjected himself to every species of
privations, however unpleasant they seemed now, after having accustomed himself
to enjoy even luxuries. He was obliged to remove to another town, and make
himself again notable, if not notorious. Somehow or another, matters did not go
on satisfactorily at all. He was obliged to resign two or three appointments in
a very short space of time: the duties were in his opinion rather onerous and
mean. It must be observed that Tchichikoff was a man of such unexceptionable
propriety, it would have been difficult to meet with another like him anywhere
in the broad Russian Empire. Although he had been obliged to wind his way
through the midst of a sullied society, yet he had always succeeded in keeping
his heart and his person clean; he was fond of holding an appointment in an
office where the tables were well polished, and where gentlemanly habits were
strictly regarded. He was never guilty of coarse expressions in his
conversation, but was always offended when others omitted to show due respect to
rank and position. It will perhaps be interesting to our reader to know, that he
had the habit of changing his linen every other day, and in summer, during the
excessive heat, even every day; the least odour gave offence to his olfactory
nerves. For this very reason, whenever his servant Petruschka came to undress
him and take off his boots, he used to hold a smelling-bottle to his nose,
whilst in many other instances his nerves were as sensitive as those of a young
girl; and for this reason it was all the more difficult to him to accustom
himself again to the habits of those who were addicted to the use of strong
spirits, and generally displayed unbecoming manners. However much he tried to
exert himself to keep up a good spirit within him, he nevertheless could not
help pining away, and becoming even of a lemon-coloured complexion from the
reverses of fortune. He had already begun to grow corpulent and assume those
pleasant and round forms, in which the reader found our hero at the commencement
of the acquaintance with him, and more than once he had smiled at himself whilst
looking at his face in the mirror and whilst whispering many a pleasant and
insinuating smile; but now when he happened to look at himself furtively into
the looking glass, he could not help exclaiming: "Holiest mother! how ugly I
look to be sure!" And after this he would not venture to examine himself for a
long while. However he endured and conquered the vicissitudes man-folly and
patiently, and--at last entered the government service again, as a custom-house
officer, in the frontier town of Bialystock. We must here observe, that the
custom-house service had been already for a considerable time the secret object
of his wishes and speculation, because that particular branch of administration
constitutes the chief revenue of the Empire, and consequently allowed the best
pay to the officers employed in the service. But this was not the only reason
for his giving the preference to a custom-house appointment. He saw with what
exquisite articles of refinement all the custom-house officers used to parade in
town, what fine china and linens they all sent to their sweethearts, sisters and
cousins. And many a time he had already exclaimed, whilst heaving a deep sigh:
"Oh, how I should like to get an appointment in the custom-house! the frontier
is not far off, the people seem all more enlightened, and especially, what an
excellent chance to provide one-self with fine linen!" We must add, that at the
same time, he also thought of the expensive French soaps, which had the virtue
to increase and preserve the complexion! what its particular denominations was,
heavens only knew, but accordingly to his suppositions, it would certainly
absolutely be found at the frontier. And he therefore had long felt a desire to
get himself an appointment in the custom-house; but he was prevented from
sending in an application, on account of the advantageous profits which he
derived from the building-committee, and in this his judgment was correct.
Whatever the advantages of a custom-house appointment might offer _in spe,_ they
were nevertheless like a lark in the skies, whilst the building-committee was
like an owl in his hands. Now was his time to exert himself to the utmost, and
obtain the long wished for appointment in the custom-house, and really he at
last obtained his wish. He started upon his new duties with an unusual
eagerness. Such abilities, penetration and application as he displayed in his
new functions had not only never been witnessed before, but even never heard of.
In less then three or four weeks after his appointment to office, he had so
perfectly rendered himself master of everything, that his equal could not be
found; he knew and understood all--he had no necessity either to weigh or
measure anything, but knew from the invoices how many arschines a piece of cloth
or silk contained; or on taking a piece of goods in his hands, he could say
exactly how many pounds it weighed. As regarded the regular business of an
excise-man, namely, "searching," he displayed as his colleagues used to express
themselves, the scent of a pointer; it was perfectly impossible not to be
surprised, on seeing how he could display so much patience and trouble to touch
and examine even every button, but all this was done with a killing coolness and
an incredible politeness. And at the time, when the persons thus exposed to his
"researches," were annoyed to madness, and lost their temper, and felt a wicked
inclination to smash his pleasant countenance, he would, without changing either
the expression of his face, or his polite manners, only add: "Would you,
perhaps, have any objection to incommode yourself a little by rising from your
seat?" or, "Would your ladyship have the kindness to step into the other room?"
(even the ladies are not spared the annoyances of custom-house officers in
Russia.) "There your ladyship will find the wife of one of our officials, who
will have the honour to explain to you the regulations of the custom-house," or,
"Will you allow me to rip up with this small pen-knife a little of the wadding
of your cloak?" and saying this, and suiting the action to the word, he would
produce from there, shawls and dresses as coolly as if he was taking them out of
his own portmanteau. His superiors even pronounced their opinion about him in
the following terms, "that he was the devil himself and not a man:" he made his
"researches" in carriage wheels, harness, and even in the ears of the horses,
and heaven knows where he did not search for contraband goods; at any rate, an
author would never hit upon the idea of searching in those places, where a
custom-house officer has the right to pry. The poor traveller who happened to
leave or enter the Empire on that particular frontier, was sure to feel for some
minutes at least, after the custom-house officer had performed his duty, the
cold perspiration run down all over his body, and exclaim perhaps whilst
crossing himself; "This is rather carrying custom-house regulations too far!"
The position of a traveller who had the misfortune to fall in the hands of
Tchichikoff, must have been similar to that of a schoolboy rushing out of the
master's room, where he had entered under the impression that he would receive a
simple reprimand, and where he had unexpectedly met with a sound thrashing. In
the course of a very short season indeed, those persons, who were in the habit
of carrying on a regular system of contraband trade were completely ruined by
his watchfullness. He was the terror and ruin of the whole of the Polish Jew
race. His faith and honesty were unimpeachable--almost unnatural. He even
declined to accept a portion of such monies as were the result of sales of the
various confiscated goods or trifling sundry articles, which were not accounted
for to the Crown, in order to avoid loss of time and expense. Such zealous and
disinterested service could not fail to become the subject of general admiration
and surprise, and found at last its recompense with the higher authorities. He
was knighted and elevated to the rank of Councillor of State, and soon after be
submitted a project for capturing all contrabandists, asking only the favour to
be appointed the executor of his scheme and for the necessary means. He was
immediately invested with unlimited power, and the privilege of search wherever
he thought proper. This was all he could wish for. At that time a large and
powerful contraband society had been formed, based upon a regular system of
fraud upon the Crown; more than a million worth of goods secretly imported into
the Empire, yielded double the amount to this bold enterprize. Tchichikoff had
had long since an idea of this organization, and had even twice already repelled
the envoys who had been sent to bribe him; but he refused to listen to any of
their proposals, adding dryly, "It is not yet time." But scarcely had he
obtained uncontrolled authority in everything, when he in the next moment after
his confirmation, sent word to the secret associations, saying: "Now is the
time." His calculations were but too just. Now he stood a chance of gaining in
one year, that which he could perhaps have never acquired otherwise in twenty.
At the beginning of the foundation of this society, he would not have anything
to do with them; because he was nothing else but a simple custom-house officer,
consequently, besides perhaps compromising himself, his share in the
transactions would have been insignificant; but now, now it was quite a
different affair altogether; he was a Councillor of State, and could therefore
fix his own terms. In order to ensure speed and complete success, he even gained
over another colleague of his, who could not resist the luring temptation,
although he was already a greyhaired man. The conditions between the two
contracting parties, namely the imperial _employÃ©s_ and the contrabandists, were
securely fixed, and the smuggling association began its operations. The
beginning of their operations was brilliant; some of our readers might perhaps
have heard some time ago of the long-forgotten history of the wise Spanish
sheep, who went out travelling in double coats; well, these very same Spanish
sheep with a double fleece, imported on this occasion, Brussels lace of nearly
one million roubles value. This was the first operation upon the interests of
the Crown in which Tchichikoff played a prominent part. Had he presided over and
led this undertaking himself, not even the cleverest and acutest Jew in the
world would have ever succeeded in carrying out such a daring enterprize. After
three or four journeys of the Spanish sheep across the frontier line, both chief
custom-house officers had realized a capital of about four hundred thousand
roubles each. It was even said, that Tchichikoff's share in the enterprize
exceeded half a million roubles, because he was so much more daring. Heaven
knows to what incalculable amount these already very round and handsome sums of
money would have increased in the course of time, if some evil spirit had not
crossed in a fatal moment their path. The devil set the two chief officers by
the ears; to speak intelligibly and simply, the two _employÃ©s_ picked a quarrel
about a mere nothing. Somehow or another, perhaps in a moment of excitement, and
perhaps even while under the influence of a glass or two of good wine,
Tchichikoff happened to call his worthy colleague a starÃ²ver (dissenter), and
the other, though he really was a starÃ²ver, it is impossible to say why, felt
horribly insulted, and answered him there and then, immediately, loudly, and in
an unusually cutting tone of voice, as follows: "You lie! I am a Privy
Councillor of State, and not a starÃ²ver; but as for you, you are a starÃ²ver!"
And then he also added, a few minutes later, and as if to spite his friend:
"Yes, take that and all!" Though he had in this manner shaved the other, as it
were, by retorting on him the appellation applied to himself, and though the
expression of "Yes, take that and all!" might have had a powerful meaning; not
satisfied with this, he sent in to government a secret information against
Tchichikoff. However, it was said, that besides this quarrel, there was another
cause of difference between them; and it was rumoured about, that it was
concerning a woman, young, fresh, and healthy as a sweet beet-root, according to
the expressions of the other custom-house officials; it was also known that some
_bravos_ had been hired to give a sound thrashing to our hero, which had really
happened on a certain fine evening; but that, in the end, both superior's
friends had been made fools of by the fair woman, and that a certain Stabz-
CapitÃ¤n Schamschareff gained the day over them, and succeeded in carrying the
fair BriseÃ¯s off before their very noses. The nearer particulars of this affair
are wrapped in obscurity, and we therefore leave it to our courteous reader to
imagine the details according to their own taste. The most important of all was,
that the secret connection between our hero and the smugglers became known to
the superior authorities. And though the Privy Councillor of State had ruined
the simple Councillor of State through his infamous denunciation, he did not
escape the due punishment himself, but was immediately degraded and dismissed.
Tchichikoff and his coadjutor were arrested and brought up to judgment, all
their property was confiscated for the benefit of the Crown, and their
misfortune and disgrace broke over them like a thunder-storm. When the storm was
over, and when they began to recover again a little, they seemed quite horror-
struck when they looked upon what they had been guilty of. The Privy Councillor
could not resist the shock, and died soon after, but the simple Councillor of
State bore up more manfully. He had succeeded in secreting a considerable amount
of his fortune, notwithstanding the strictest investigations of the Court of
Inquiry that was held over them. He used the finest diplomacy the human mind is
capable of to extricate himself as advantageously as possible from his
disgraceful position, and his experience assisted him in this most powerfully,
for he knew already well enough of what stuff the men with whom he had to deal
were made; he employed the greatest circumspection, his politest manners, the
most touching and persuasive terms, burnt incense and confused his judges by a
profusion of flattery, which did not in the least injure his position; he even
went so far as to consider money no object, provided he could succeed in
extricating himself; in a word, he turned the tables so well in his favour, that
he could reappear again in the world, at least not so much disgraced as his more
unfortunate colleague, for he ultimately succeeded, though narrowly, in escaping
from being sent to Siberia. CHAPTER VIII. Tchichikoff's reserve funds had,
however, dwindled down to a mere trifle; his splendidly furnished house with all
its foreign refinements was taken from him and given as a reward to some other
official. All that was left to him, amounted to a sum of about ten thousand
roubles, besides a couple of dozen fine Holland shirts, a convenient, light
britchka, to which bachelors give the preference for travelling purposes, and
two faithful serfs, his coachman Selifan and his valet Petruschka, (the little
hunchback had died some time before), and we must also not forget to mention
that his former colleagues in office, moved by compassion at his disgrace and
sad prospects--for they believed him penniless--had had the generosity to leave
him a few pieces of that peculiar French soap which possesses the virtue of
preserving the freshness of the skin; and this was all that he could call his
property. And it was in such a position that our hero made his appearance! Such
then was the excess of misfortunes that befel him! And this it was what he
called in Smolensk to suffer in the service for truth and the just cause. Now
the conclusion might have been drawn that, after so many sad experiences and
changes of fortune and position in life, he would wisely retire with his round
sum of ten thousand roubles into a small and quiet provincial town, and put on
for ever a comfortable Tartar cotton morning-gown, and seat himself at the
window of some modest private house, and look on a Sunday at the fights and
quarrels of the mouzhiks before him in the street; or take a walk in the
poultry-yard, and feed with his own hands the fowl which he would like to have
cooked for his dinner, and would have continued to lead a quiet and retired
though not entirely useless existence. However, it did not happen thus. Justice
must be rendered to his unconquerable fortitude of character. All that had
happened to him would perhaps, if not have killed another man, at least would
have served him as a caution and quieted him; but with our hero it was not so,
the inward flame of his passion was as ardent as ever. He felt acute grief and
vexation, swore at the whole world, angry at the injustice of Providence,
disgusted at the injustice of men in general; but for all that he could not
forbear making new essays. In a word, he displayed such an extraordinary amount
of patience and perseverance, against which the wooden patience and perseverance
of a German are nothing, because it is constitutional with them. Tchichikoff's
blood, on the contrary, was like an ever-playing fountain, and it was requisite
for him to possess a powerful will and wisdom, to bridle all those passions
which would have liked to escape and enjoy unbounded freedom. He began to muse
and to reflect on the past and on the future, and the conclusions he arrived at
were not at all devoid of sound judgment. "Why should it be always I? Why should
I continually be the victim of a cruel destiny? Who is the man in our empire who
lingers over his duties? All, the whole nation, from the Emperor himself down to
the meanest serf, all have their mind bent upon acquisition. I have ruined
nobody; I have not robbed the lonely widow, nor have I made any children
orphans. I have derived profit from superfluities, have only taken what every
one else in my place would have taken; if I had not profited by the chance
offered me, others would have done so. Why should others alone enjoy wealth and
comforts, and why I alone be condemned to live and die like a worm? "And what am
I now? For what am I good now? With what countenance should I now be able to
look into the face of any pater familias? How can I escape the pangs of shame,
knowing that I walk uselessly on the face of the earth: and what will my
children say when I am dead and gone? They will say our father was a villain: he
left us no position, no fortune!" It is already well known to our readers that
Tchichikoff was particularly anxious about his heirs. A very tender subject.
Many a man would perhaps venture head and neck, if it was not for the question
which presses itself inexplicably upon him--"What, will my children say?" And
the possible head of a future generation, like a precautious cat, looking
sideways to espy if his master is in the way, seizes hurriedly everything that
happens to be near him, either a piece of soap, some candles, tallow, or a
canary bird if it should happen to fall under its claws; in a word, he allows
nothing to escape. Thus lamented our disconsolate hero: meanwhile his activity
was not extinguished within him; it only slumbered for a while. There was always
something that preoccupied his mind, and only waited for the chance of a sound
plan. He armed himself once more with his peculiar virtues, and determined again
to begin an active and difficult life; he again submitted himself to the well-
known privations of former life, and again from an elevated and respectable
position, he launched himself into sullied and low life. And in the expectation
of something better turning up, he was obliged to accept the situation of a
commission-agent, a profession yet badly received and acknowledged by our
citizens, pushed about on all sides, shabbily paid and treated with disregard
and even with contempt. However, necessity obliges us to many things, and also
excuses them, and our hero therefore determined upon accepting the situation.
Among a variety of business with which he had been entrusted, was also the
following: to mortgage in the Imperial Bank of the Council of Guardians, a few
hundred serfs. The nobleman who had commissioned him to undertake this business
was ruined, and reduced to the last extremity. His landed property was already
completely encumbered, by an epidemic among his cattle, villainous and dishonest
stewards, bad harvests, epidemic diseases which had carried off numbers of his
most valuable serfs, and at last by the follies of the nobleman himself, who had
purchased and furnished a house in St. Petersburg at an extravagant expense but
in the last Parisian fashion, and who had spent upon this mad fancy his last
rouble, so that he had nothing to eat. And for this reason, he was obliged to
have recourse to the last extremity, and determine upon parting with his life
estate. The Imperial Bank for the mortgage of landed property and serfs, under
the title of Council of Guardians, is one of the numerous paternal institutions
of recent date, and of all of which his Majesty the Emperor is himself the head.
The transactions of the Imperial Council of Guardians claim his peculiar
attention, and consist chiefly in advancing monies to such noblemen of the
Empire as have become embarrassed from various causes, but principally from such
as we have already alluded to. The monies of the Crown are advanced upon real
estate, namely upon land and serfs. It is principally left to the Council of
Guardians to fix the period for repayment of the advanced funds, and if the
nobleman thus assisted cannot redeem his mortgaged property in due time, it is
again left to the discretion of the Imperial Council of Guardians to have the
property of the nobleman valued by a special committee, and then it is sold to
the Crown, which, after refunding itself, hands the residue to the thus ruined
nobleman. This system of paternal accommodation, which the Russian nobility
enjoys at the hands of his Majesty the Emperor, fully accounts for the enormous
number of Crown serfs, which number has increased since the establishment of the
Imperial Council of Guardians nearly to a million souls. At the time when
Tchichikoff was intrusted with the mortgage of those few hundred serfs, the
Council of Guardians had been but recently established, yet much of its
operations had already transpired, and circulated among the nobility, and for
that reason they were very reluctant to profit by this paternal accommodation.
Tchichikoff, in his capacity of agent, had received instructions to conclude the
mortgage of the serfs on the most advantageous terms; he therefore thought it
proper to dispose everything favourably, (without previously well disposing a
few of the Imperial _employÃ©s_, it would be hopeless to apply for anything like
information, and it is therefore advisable to smooth their throats with a
profusion of port and sherry), and thus, having as far as necessary well-
disposed every one of the _employÃ©s_ in the Council of Guardians, with whom he
would have to transact business, he explained his errand to be connected with a
very peculiar circumstance. "Half of the serfs I wish to mortgage, have died
since my arrival here at Moscow, and I am therefore alarmed lest there might be
some misunderstanding about them later--"

"But allow me to ask you," said the secretary of the Board of Guardians, "are
these two hundred serfs we are now speaking about, included in the census your
nobleman has handed in to government, when the last census was taken?" "Yes,
they are included," answered Tchichikoff. "If so, I can see no reason why you
should feel faint-hearted?" the secretary returned, "if the one dies, another is
born, and thus makes up the deficiency." Meanwhile, a sublime idea seized upon
the imagination of our hero, a thought that had perhaps never occurred to human
mind before. "Oh, I am the very image of simplicity," he said to himself, "I am
looking about for my gloves, and have them already on my hands. Suppose I were
to buy up all those serfs that have died lately, and before the new census is
taken, suppose I made the acquisition of about a thousand dead serfs, and,
suppose the Council of Guardians was to make me the trifling advance of two
hundred roubles for each such serf; that would make a capital of two hundred
thousand silver roubles. And now is just my time, an epidemic has but recently
ravaged the whole of the country, and, thank Heaven, the number of people that
have died from it is not insignificant at all. The country gentlemen have lost
much, thanks to their gambling propensities, they have spent a deal in feasting,
and have, in fact, ruined themselves most satisfactorily; all seem to have
hurried off to St. Petersburg, to seek for appointments at court; their estates
are neglected, and are administered any how, the payment of imposts to the Crown
becomes with every year more difficult, and therefore, I am led to suppose that
they will be glad to cede to me their valueless dead serfs, in order to avoid
the payment of the annual tax upon them till the return of the next census; it
might even happen that some of them will not only jump at my offer to purchase
their valueless stock, but even pay me something extra for my generosity, my
philanthrophy. "Nevertheless, and, of course, it is a difficult, a complicated,
a dangerous undertaking, for I might easily get myself into serious trouble,
perhaps cause a great scandal, be sent to Siberia.... But wisdom an imagination
have been given for some purpose to man. That, the most encouraging feature in
my speculation, is, that the subject will appear incredible to every one, nobody
will ever believe it. It is true, according to a recent ukase, it is impossible
to buy serfs without the land they were born upon, nor can they be mortgaged
without it. But I mean to purchase them for emigration, yes, for settling them
elsewhere, now vast tracts of land are granted for a mere nothing in the
provinces of Kherson, and close to the Turkish frontiers. "It is there that I
will settle them; in the government of Kherson; close to the Turkish frontiers;
let them live among the heathens. As for their privilege of emigration, that can
be done lawfully, and according to the sense of the imperial ukase, all this can
be legally settled in the proper courts of the Crown. If they should ask me the
proofs of the existence of such serfs? Why not? I shall not be at a loss to do
even that, and from the very returns of the census, and with the genuine
signature of the CapitÃ¤n-Ispravnik (district judge). The new village which is to
spring so suddenly into existence, I shall call 'Tchichikoff's New Settlement,'
or according to the name which I received at my baptism, make from Pavel, 'The
Village of Pavlovsk.'" It is in this manner that the strange idea on which our
story is founded, formed itself, in the head of our hero; whether our reader
will feel himself under any obligation to him, we do not know; but as for
ourselves we must confess, we feel indebted to Tchichikoff for this subject
beyond description. Whatever might be said for or against it, without
Tchichikoff's idea this novel would never have made its appearance. Making a
devout sign of the cross in the Russian fashion, Tchichikoff set about the
execution of his fixed plan immediately. With a view of choosing places of
residences, and under other pretences, he set about examining here and there the
various corners of our vast Empire, and paid particular attention to those
districts where the sufferings and losses from various disasters, such as
epidemics, bad harvests, and other causes, had been felt most severely; in a
word, he sought for those districts where he might be able to buy his stock,
namely, dead serfs, on the most advantageous terms. He did not address himself
at random to every landed proprietor, and serf-owner, but made his choice among
them, and according to the best of his judgment; or he applied to those men,
from whom he had every reason to anticipate no particular scruples about
transacting this strange business with him; he therefore introduced himself to
them under the most favourable auspices, made their particular acquaintance,
tried to gain their favourable opinion and esteem, so that he might, if
possible, obtain from them what he wanted in a friendly manner, and as cheaply
as possible. From this reason, therefore, our reader must not be displeased with
us, if the characters that will be introduced to them during the progress of
Tchichikoff's career are not entirely to their taste, this is the fault of
Tchichikoff, but not ours; for we are obliged to follow him wherever he chose to
go. As for ourselves, if any blame should be cast upon us, for bringing such
uncomely characters before a British public, especially at this present critical
moment when a war with Russia is being carried on, we can only express our
regret at the fact, but our conscience forbids us to represent our countrymen in
any other than the real light. Such then was the character of our hero, such as
circumstances had created it, and the contact with the world and life had
fashioned it in later years! But it is very likely that a positive definition of
one of his characteristic traits will be demanded; what is he really as regards
his moral qualifications? that he is not a hero full of perfections and virtues,
we must confess, is obvious at first sight. Who, or what is he then? he must be
a villain? Why should he be a villain? Why should we be so severe towards
others? There are no real villains to be met with now-a-day; there are well
disposed persons, agreeable, and even unexceptionable persons, but such persons,
as would exhibit their physiognomy to the gaze of the world, and present their
cheek for a public box on the ear, of such persons it is likely that two or
three might be met with, and then even, they have begun already to speak of the
charms of virtue. We shall therefore be justified in calling our hero; not like
the French a _chevalier d'industrie_ but in simple English terms; a gentleman
acquirer. Acquisition is the root of a great many evils, and that threatens our
peace even now. The desire of acquisition rages now in all classes of society,
and especially in Russia, commencing from the Emperor himself, down to his
meanest serf, all are mad with a desire for acquisition. Without this desire on
the part of the Emperor for the acquisition of Turkey, the nation at large would
not have acquired the fanaticism to stand by his side, and back his mad
propensity for acquisition; why should it not be excusable in one of his humble
subjects? Such then was the object which had brought our friend Tchichikoff to
the pleasant town of Smolensk; the purchase, namely, of dead serfs. During the
progress of his schemes, he was thrown into much curious society, and met with
numerous queer adventures; these will form the subject matter of our work. While
accompanying our hero on his perilous journey, we shall become acquainted with
almost every class of Russian society, and the whole will furnish us at the
least with a faithful, if not a flattering, idea of that nation which holds
itself at the present day, as the supporter of the orthodox Church, and future
master of the world's destinies. In itself, the nefarious scheme devised by our
hero, affords an extraordinary instance of the cunning inherent in the Russian
character, for its whole success was based on the knowledge he possessed of the
utter baseness of the national character. None of the actors in this strange
drama will appear to exhibit the slightest compunction about defrauding the
government, as long as they can gain any slight advantage to themselves, and
even the certainty of condign punishment in the very possible event of
detection, cannot cause them to refrain from their innate propensity. The fact
is an humiliating one, but in our character as the historian of an actual event,
we have not dared to omit a single trait which may seem to elucidate our story.
We only wish it was in our power to draw a pleasanter portrait of our
countrymen, and we fervently trust that the time may yet arrive when such
stories as the present one, may be numbered among things that were. CHAPTER IX.
More than a week had already passed away since Tchichikoff's arrival in
Smolensk, during which time he had continued paying morning visits and attending
dinner and evening parties, and in so doing, had spent--as the common phrase
goes--his time very pleasantly. At last he determined upon extending his
civilities beyond the limits of the town, and resolved to turn his attention to
the pressing invitations of the landowners in the vicinity; among whom Maniloff
and Sobakevitch were those to whom he had made a formal promise. It is very
possible too, that this resolution arose from another, a more positive, a graver
motive; perhaps, even an affair of the heart. But of all this the reader may
learn more by degrees, and in proper time, if he will only take the trouble, and
muster the patience, to read on and follow our traveller on his journeying.
Selifan, the coachman, had received instructions to be ready early in the
morning, and to have his horses and the britchka ready to start at a moment's
notice; Petruschka, his servant, was ordered to stay at home, and mind his
master's apartment and his portmanteau. The reader will not deem it superfluous,
we hope, to make the distant acquaintance of these two domestics of our hero,
whom he was accustomed to call his men or serfs. Although, and of course, they
will not have to appear as prominent characters, or even victims of despotism;
yet, their denomination of serfs may serve us as an excuse for exciting the
curiosity and sympathy of our courteous reader in their behalf, and for placing
them among the third, or even second-rate personages, who are to figure in the
adventures of our hero Pavel Ivanovitch Tchichikoff. Although, the plot, or the
links that connect the whole, is not especially founded upon them, still, now
and then, they will have to appear in order to pull us through this long "chain
of events;" besides, as we are in England, we like to be minute in everything,
and in this instance, and regardless of our being a Russian, we will do our
best, and try to be as particular as an Englishman. In addition, the description
will demand but little time and space, for it will not be necessary to add much
more to that which the reader already knows; we therefore proceed to state at
once that Petruschka was accustomed to wear, and to walk about in a large snuff-
coloured coat, formerly cast off from the broad shoulders of his master, and
that he had, as is common among persons of his calling, a very large nose and
broad lips. As regards his character, he was addicted more to the silent system,
than inclined to talkativeness; he had a laudable inclination for general
information, _i.e._ he was fond of reading books, though he did not care much
about their contents; it was a matter of perfect indifference to him, whether it
was the adventures of an amorous hero, or simply a spelling, or a prayer-book,
he read them all with equal attention; if therefore, a grave work on chemistry
had been presented to him, he would have accepted it with equal resignation. It
was not what he read that pleased him, but more the reading itself, or better
said, the process of reading, because from the composition of letters, originate
words, which again when spelled have a meaning, which many a poor devil like
Petruschka has every difficulty to understand. He had the habit of going through
his reading process, generally in a recumbent position, which he took up in the
anteroom, where he used to stretch himself upon his bed and upon a mattress,
which, in consequence of the frequent use and this peculiar indulgence of his,
had shrunk into a mere nothing in comparison to its original size, and had
actually become as thin as a pancake. Besides his passion for reading, he had
two more characteristic habits; he liked to sleep without undressing, just as he
was, in the same surtout, and conveying with him a _je ne sais quoi_, an
atmosphere of his own, which was not unlike the odour of an over-crowded room,
so much so, that it was sufficient for him to put up his bedstead, no matter
where, if even in an hitherto uninhabited apartment, and bring into it his cloak
and other articles of wardrobe, when suddenly it would seem as the chamber had
been occupied for the last ten years. Tchichikoff had his peculiarities as well,
and was in many instances a man of delicate feelings; sometimes, when rising
early in the morning, he would inhale the air with his refreshed nostrils, but
of a sudden he would sneeze and slowly add: "Well, Petruschka, the devil knows
it, you seem to perspire strongly. I only wish you would go and take a warm
bath." To this, Petruschka made no reply, but tried to busy himself immediately
with something; or he went with brush in hand to his master's dress-coat which
was hanging over the door, as if to clean it; or would arrange or put some of
his effects in order. It is difficult to say what he might be thinking of at
this precise moment, when he was thus rebuked and silent; perhaps he thus spoke
to himself: "What an original my master is, to be sure, he seems not to be tired
of repeating the same observation, fifty times over." Heaven knows! it is very
difficult to tell what a wretched serf thinks at the moment when his lawful
master scolds him. However, this is all we have to say at present about
Petruschka. The coachman, Selifan, was quite a different man. However, on second
thoughts, we feel rather timid about troubling our reader so much with the
affairs of persons of so low a condition, for we know by experience how little
inclination there exists to make acquaintance with the lower classes. At any
rate that is the case in Russia, where we have ranks of every shade and
description, and where a frightful predilection prevails to become acquainted
with persons of merely a higher _nuance_ of rank, and a bowing acquaintance with
a count or a baron of the Empire, is esteemed but too often more valuable than
the most intimate ties of friendship. And thus passing over the coachman,
Selifan, we return to our hero, who having given his orders and already made his
preparations on the previous evening, awoke the next morning early, washed
himself with a wet sponge from top to toe, an operation which he had a
particular habit of performing, usually on a Sunday; the day happening to be the
one as well on which he shaved himself carefully and even so minutely, that his
cheeks looked as smooth and shiny as satin; he put on his coffee-coloured dress-
coat with the gilt brass buttons, and then his travelling cloak with its
numerous collars. Thus dressed he descended the staircase, carefully assisted,
now on side, now on the other, by the one ever attentive head-waiter, until he
took his seat in the britchka. The travelling carriage drove with great noise
from the court-yard into the open street. A passing priest respectfully saluted
the traveller, as if giving him his benediction on the road, whilst a few boys
in ragged shirts and breeches stretched out their little hands and shouted after
him, "Pray, good gentleman, do not forget the wretched orphans." Selifan, the
coachman, observing that one of the little urchins was very expert in throwing
somersets, gave him a touch with his whip on passing him, and away went the
britchka clattering over the stones. It is with no little pleasure that a
traveller beholds in the distance the painted mile posts, which are the limits
of the fatiguing pavement and other annoyances on passing through a town; a
little more shaking and jolting about in his carriage and Tchichikoff found
himself at last upon a more even and pleasanter road. Scarcely, however, had he
left the town at his back when his sight was gratified with, what _we_ term,
"rural beauty," on either side of the road, such as mole-hills, fir-trees, low
and stunted shrubs, and pine groves intermixed and surrounded by juniper and
other such trees and bushes. Now and then the scene would be enlivened by the
sudden appearance of a village laid out in a monotonous-geometrical order, and
resembling in its architecture a huge pile of timber covered over with a grey
roof, under which the ornamental wood-carvings forcibly reminded one of the
embellishments of a Dutch towel. Here and there a few mouzhiks might be seen
yawning as usual, and sitting upon their sheepskins before their houses, whilst
the women with their fat bodies and cheeks were peeping out from the windows
above; from the lower story of the houses some serious sheep or a sullen pig
would exhibit their grave faces. Such are the scenes that present themselves but
too often on the high roads of Russia. After having passed the fifteenth werst,
Tchichikoff bethought himself, that it must be about here that, according to the
words of Maniloff, his estate and village ought to be found, but after having
passed the sixteenth werst-post he still saw nothing of that which was so
minutely described to him, and had it not been for two peasants who were just
passing, it is very difficult to say whether Tchichikoff would have found the
spot or not. Upon the question being put to them, how far it was to the estate
called Zamanilovka, the mouzhiks took off their hats, and one of them, being
rather more intelligent than his comrade, for he wore his beard in the pointed
style, replied, "It is perhaps Manilovka and not Zamanilovka, that your glory
wishes to inquire for?" "Just so, yes, Manilovka!" "Manilovka! very well, if you
drive on a werst farther, you will be there, that is to say, straight on and
then to the right." "To the right?" now inquired the coachman, in his turn.
"Yes, to the right," replied the peasant, "that will be your road to Manilovka;
as for Zamanilovka, such a village does not exist. It is called so, that is to
say, its name is Manilovka, as for Zamanilovka you will not find it; straight on
before you, you will perceive upon a hill a house built of stone two stories
high, in which lives the master, that is to say the owner of the estate. That
then will be Manilovka, but as for Zamanilovka there is no such a place here,
and never was." They now drove off in search of Manilovka. They had already gone
two wersts, and came to the turning of a private road; they seemed to have
passed two, three and even four wersts more, but still they did not behold the
stone building that was to be two stories high. Suddenly, Tchichikoff bethought
himself that if a person invites a friend to visit him at his estate, situated
about fifteen wersts from town, it usually turns out to be at least thirty
wersts distance; at any rate, the situation of Maniloff's estate seemed at
present to be known but to few. The dwelling-house of Maniloff's family stood,
nevertheless, on a rising hill, quite isolated, that is to say, upon an
elevation exposed to all the winds that might be blowing from any quarter; the
declivity of the mount upon which the house stood was surrounded by a carefully
cut grass-plot, upon which were scattered about a few bushy heaps _Ã 
l'anglaise,_ shrubs of lilac and yellow acacias; here and there a group composed
of five or six birch trees raised their thin branches and small leaves, thus
forming a scanty cupola. From between two such cupolas peered out a pavilion
with a flat roof, painted in light green and resting upon wooden columns of a
sky-blue colour, with the laconic inscription: "Temple of solitary meditation;"
a little lower in the foreground a brook rushed forth noisily from under the
green foliage, which is not an uncommon thing in an English garden belonging to
a Russian proprietor. At the foot of the elevation and partly upon its incline,
were scattered in the distance and in all directions a number of small grey
wooden huts, forming the village; at the sight of these dwellings our hero began
--for some reason or other best known to himself--to count them; and on counting
their number he found them upwards of two hundred. They were nowhere intersected
by trees or shrubs, they presented nothing else but the monstrous appearance of
heaps of wood as previously described. The scene, however, was enlivened by two
women, who had tucked up their petticoats in a quite picturesque manner, and
fixed them carefully to their sides; they were wading up to their knees through
the brook, holding each one end of a ragged net, in which might have been seen a
couple of entangled crayfish, and a fat trout; the women seemed to have some
dispute, for they appeared quarrelling and scolding one another. In the
distance, on the right hand side of the hill, loomed a dull looking fir-tree
forest. The weather even, seemed in harmony with the scenery; the day was not
exactly a dull one, nor could it be called a bright one, the sky was of a
peculiarly greyish tint, not unlike the worn-out cloak of a garrison soldier. To
complete the tableau, the cock, the prognosticator of the changes in the
weather, even seemed out of tune; regardless of the fact that his head was
damaged by the beaks of his fellow-creatures--according to their fashion he was
crowing _Ã  tue-tÃªte_ and even clapped his tattered wings against his ragged
sides. CHAPTER X. On driving up to the entrance-hall, Tchichikoff perceived the
lord of the mansion standing upon the door steps, clad in a long parrot-green
coloured surtout, holding his hands over his forehead in lieu of an eye-shade,
no doubt for the purpose of concentrating his sight, for the purpose of more
minutely examining the arriving carriage. Whilst the britchka was driving nearer
towards the house, the eyes of the master seemed to dilate and brighten up by
degrees, and his smiles increase in proportion. "Pavel Ivanovitch," shouted
Maniloff, for it was he, when he beheld Tchichikoff stepping out from the
carriage; "at last you have been kind enough to remember us." Both friends
embraced each other most heartily, and Maniloff led his guest into the house.
Although the time necessary for going from the outer premises into the anteroom,
thence into the dining-room, until they arrived in the regular reception-room,
would be rather short, yet we think it an opportune moment, and will endeavour
to make the best use of it and say a few words _en passant_ about the owner of
the estate and mansion. But here we must observe that such an undertaking is
fraught with many difficulties. It is far easier to delineate a strongly-marked
character; to picture such a one is easy, for you have simply to throw the
following characteristics upon the canvass, such as, black and piercing eyes,
overshadowing eye-brows, a frowning forehead, a black, or fire-coloured large
cloak thrown as if carelessly over the left shoulder--like Zamiel in "Der
FreischÃ¼tz"--and the portrait is finished; but there are men in this world, and
they are numerous, who at first sight are very much alike, but if you look
closer, you will find many unattainable traits and peculiarities in them, which
are particularly their own; to describe this species of men is a very difficult
task indeed. With them, it is necessary to use strenuous exertions and the
greatest attention, before you are able to delineate even a portion of the fine
and nearly imperceptible traits of their character, and in general, it is
requisite to set about into such an undertaking with an experienced mind and
eye. Heaven alone, therefore, could, with any correctness portray the character
of Maniloff. He seemed to belong to that class of men which we term in Russia
among the good-natured ones, "neither a clown in town, nor a fool in the
village." At first sight, he was a man of rather prepossessing appearance, and
of a pleasing countenance; but these advantages seemed to have been too much
sugared by nature. In his manners and demeanour there was something which
courted acquaintance and friendship; he smiled enticingly; he was fair, and had
blue eyes. In the beginning of a conversation with him it was impossible not to
say: "What an agreeable and kind-hearted man!" and the following moment you
would say nothing; whilst in the third you would most likely exclaim: "The devil
understand the man, and what he means!" and you will leave him; if you have not
that good fortune, you are sure to feel a killing _ennui_. You will not hear
from his lips anything amusing, not even an insinuation, which you may hear from
any one else, provided you touch but slightly the chord which is most in harmony
with his interests. Every one has his hobby-horse in conversation, as in other
matters; the one has all his passion concentrated upon dogs and horses; another
fancies he is an herculean admirer of music, and acutely feels all its delicate
passages; a third is a _passÃ© maÃ®tre_ in gastronomy; a fourth endeavouring to
play a _rÃ´le_, if but an inch loftier, then the one assigned to him by nature
and his position in society; a fifth, with more moderation in his wishes,
meditates how he could manage to be seen on the promenade walking side by side
with an imperial colonel, or aide-de-camp, thus to show himself off to his
friends known and unknown, in a word, every one has his peculiar ways and
manners; but Maniloff had none. At home he was accustomed to speak but little,
for he seemed always busy thinking and meditating, but what about? that also
might be known in Heaven. Nor could it be said that he busied himself in the
management of his property, for he never took the trouble to visit his fields or
his estate in general; thus, then, agriculture was left to go and find its own
way. If his steward spoke to him, and suggested an alteration or improvement,
saying, "This or that could or might be done for the better." "Yes, not a bad
idea, that of yours, steward," would be his invariable reply, and he continued
to smoke his Turkish pipe, a habit which he had contracted at an early age,
while serving in the Caucasus, where he was pronounced to be one of the
quietest, nicest, and best-bred officers in the regiment; "Yes, not a bad idea,
indeed," would he repeat in conclusion. If one of his peasants came to him, and
whilst speaking to his lord and master, scratched his head, and stroked his
beard, saying: "Would your glory allow me to go to town in search of work, and
better my condition?" "Go," he would reply, and continue to smoke his pipe, for
the idea never occurred to him that his serf came to ask him the privilege of
absenting himself, for the purpose of becoming a drunkard. Sometimes Maniloff
would also lean over his balcony, and look silently upon the lawn and noisy
brook before him, and then add: "How well it would be if there was a
subterranean walk leading from the house, or a stone bridge across the murmuring
brook, upon which I should have liked to see little shops on either side,
occupied by tradesmen, who could satisfy my peasants' wants." At such and
similar thoughts and wishes, his eyes used to fill to overflowing with their
peculiar sweetness, and his countenance expressed the greatest satisfaction;
these projects, however, remained what they originally were--thoughts and
wishes. In his study, there was always the same book lying on the same place,
with a mark on its seventeenth page, which he had acquired the habit of reading
for these last two years. In his house there was continually something wanting,
either here or there; in the drawing-room there was some superb furniture
covered with rich silken damask, which no doubt must have been very expensive;
two chairs, however, were to be seen there, uncovered with this material, no
doubt for want of it, and therefore, were left to exhibit their uncovered
carcases; nevertheless, Maniloff had every time the politeness to caution his
guests not to seat themselves upon any one of them; because, said he, they were
not yet ready. In some of the rooms there was even no furniture at all, although
he had often spoken of the necessity of furnishing them, especially during the
first weeks after his marriage: "My darting," he used to say to his wife, "my
darling, it will be necessary to provide these rooms with proper furniture, if
only temporarily, until we get more settled." In the evenings, a candlestick of
fashionable appearance--dark bronze, with three small figures, representing the
graces, and richly ornamented with mother-of-pearl, would be placed on the
table; but, next to it another one--a common brass invalid, shaky, bent down on
one side, and greasy all over, yet, without either the master, the mistress, or
any of the domestics being aware of it. His wife--however, they seemed perfectly
satisfied with each other. Although more than eight years had elapsed since they
had lived in happy matrimony, still they continued to be upon _petits soins_ one
for another, and exchanged all sorts of sweet-meats and affections, which were
offered and accepted in the most touching tones of voice, as for an example: "My
darling, open your rosy lips, and I will put this sweet little bit into your
mouth." And of course, the pretty little mouth was gracefully opened at such a
loving request. Birth-days were celebrated by exchanging all kinds of agreeable
surprises, such as knitted articles and embroideries in silk, wool and pearls,
and other ornamental knick-nacks. And very frequently too, whilst the husband
was sitting in his easy-chair and his wife on the sofa, either the one or the
other party would suddenly rise, heaven knows from what impulse, and leave--he
his pipe, and she her needlework, if she happened to have some of it in her
hands just at that moment--for the purpose of impressing a tender and such a
long and affectionate kiss, that it would have been easy to smoke a pachito
during the time this affectionate demonstration lasted. In short, they were what
is commonly called on the happiest terms. Of course, we could observe, that
there are many other occupations in a house besides continued kissing and
bickering, fating birth-days, and exchanges of presents; and many and various
are the questions that could be put as regards a household in general. Why, for
instance, is the kitchen department so much neglected? Why are the provision
stores so indifferently attended to? Why is the housekeeper dishonest, and why
are the servants so slovenly and negligent? Why does the whole batch of
domestics sleep so mercilessly long, and waste the time during which they are
awake? But all these facts and observations were beneath the notice of Madame
Maniloff, for she was well-bred and brought up. And a good education, as is well
known everywhere, can only be obtained in a private institution; and in these
institutions, as it is well known again, three principal occupations, or
subjects, constitute the foundation of female perfections: the French language,
as indispensable to conjugal happiness; the pianoforte, as a medium to create
some pleasant moments to a husband; and at last, and not least, a general
knowledge of household matters: knitting purses, braces, and embroidering
generally, for the purpose of exchanging presents. There are many changes and
improvements in various methods of teaching these indispensable branches of
human perfections, particularly in the present time; all these, however, depend
more or less on the clever or judicious management of the proprietors of these
modern and fashionable institutions. In some of these places, the three branches
above-named are classed in the following order: first, the piano forte, then the
French language, and at last, household knowledge. But in some again it also
happens that housekeeping obtains the first rank, _i.e._, knitting and
embroidering of presents; then follows the French language, and the series is
concluded most harmoniously by the pianoforte. It is obvious, therefore, that
methods of teaching exist in great variety. It will not be superfluous to
observe also that Madame Maniloff--but I think I will stop here with my further
remarks, for I must confess I am afraid to speak of ladies; besides, it is high
time to return to the gentlemen, who have been already standing for some moments
before the door of the reception-room, mutually inviting one another to step in
the first. "Pray do not so much incommode yourself on my account; I shall step
in after you," said Tchichikoff. "No, my dear Pavel Ivanovitch! pray advance;
you are my guest," replied Maniloff, pointing civilly with his hand towards the
door. "Do not incommode yourself, I beg you will not. Step before me, if you
please," said Tchichikoff. "No, pardon me, but I shall not suffer such a civil
and well-bred guest as you are to follow after me." "Why, you overwhelm me with
civilities! Pray pass on." "Never mind, do me the favour to walk in first."
"But, my dear Sir, why all these ceremonies?" "Because--and if you please," said
Maniloff again, using now one of his most enticing smiles, whilst continuing his
civil gesticulations. At last, both friends entered the room backwards, at the
same time squeezing one another gently against the door. "Allow me to introduce
you to my wife," said Maniloff. "My darling, allow me to introduce to you our
friend Pavel Ivanovitch Tchichikoff." And in truth, Tchichikoff now beheld for
the first time a lady, whom he had not observed during the moments that elapsed
whilst he was exchanging complimentary gestures with his host. She was pretty,
and dressed with taste. The light _gris de perle_ coloured morning _capotte_
became her exceedingly well; her finely-shaped hand was in the act of throwing
some needlework hastily upon the table, and snatching up instead a fine
_batiste_ pocket-handkerchief with prettily-embroidered corners and initials.
She rose slightly from her seat on the sofa, and gracefully welcomed her guest;
and Tchichikoff hastened with evident eagerness to kiss her hand in the old
Russian fashion. Madame Maniloff spoke in a slightly affected tone of voice, and
assured her guest that he caused them a real pleasure indeed by his arrival, and
that her husband had not allowed a day to pass without speaking of him, his
friend, continually. "Yes," added Maniloff, "my wife has already several times
inquired after you, and even often said, 'Why does your Petersburg friend not
come?' 'Wait a little longer, my darling, he is sure to arrive, for he gave me
his promise.' At last, you have been kind enough to gratify us with your
presence. Indeed, you cause us quite a delight, as pleasant as a May-day, or
'birth-day of the heart.'" Tchichikoff, on hearing that his host's exaltation
had already attained such a pitch as to call his arrival a gratification as
pleasant as a "birth-day of the heart," became a little confused, and answered
civilly, and in a dignified tone of voice, that he could not boast of a princely
name nor of an exalted position. "You possess all," Maniloff interrupted, whilst
sweetly smiling as usual, "you possess all, and even more.". "How did you like
our town?" added Madame Maniloff. "Have you spent your time pleasantly?" "A very
charming and pleasant town, my lady," answered Tchichikoff, "and I have spent a
most agreeable week indeed; I have been in the choicest company." "And how did
you like our Lord-Lieutenant?" Madame Maniloff again inquired. "Is he not one of
the most civil and amiable men in our province?" added, in his turn, Mr.
Maniloff. "That is perfectly true," said Tchichikoff; "he is a highly
accomplished and estimable man. How well he knows how to enter into the spirit
of his exalted position, and how well he understands all his arduous duties! It
is desirable to see many more such men administering our country!" "And how kind
and civil he is in his receptions, and how delicate and condescending in his
manners;" Maniloff added again, with a smiling face, whilst satisfaction made
him nearly close his eyes, like a cat when gently tickled with the finger behind
the ear. "A very condescending and agreeable man indeed," continued Tchichikoff;
"and how clever he is, to be sure! I never anticipated that much of him. How
well and tastefully he embroiders various household ornaments! He showed me a
purse of his own knitting, and I must confess that I doubt whether a lady could
do it much better." "And the Vice-Governor, is he not an amiable gentleman?"
questioned Maniloff, again closing his eyes slightly. "A very, very deserving
man indeed," replied Tchichikoff. "But allow me to ask you, how did you like the
Commissioner of Police? Am I not right in saying he is a very agreeable man?"
"An exceedingly agreeable man, and, at the same time, what a learned, what a
well-informed man! I spent an evening at his house, where we played a game at
whist with the imperial Procurator and the President of the Courts of Justice:
we were assembled till the last cock crowed, and I agree with you, he is indeed
a most estimable man." "And pray, what is your opinion of his wife?" inquired
Madame Maniloff. "She is a charming lady?" "Oh, Madame, she is one of the most
worthy ladies with whom I have the honour to be acquainted," replied Tchichikoff
with an air of conviction. After enumerating all these persons in due rotation,
and in the manner described, they did not fail to bestow equal praise also upon
the President of the Courts of Justice, the Postmaster-General, and, in fact,
upon all the higher _employÃ©s_ in the town of Smolensk, who, in their opinion,
seemed to be one and all the most respectable and praiseworthy persons in the
province, if not in the vast Russian Empire. "And pray, do you spend all your
time here in the country?" demanded Tchichikoff, in his turn, at last, and with
the evident attempt to change the subject of conversation. "Mostly here,"
replied Maniloff. "Sometimes, however, we go to town to spend a day or two and
pay a few visits, just for the sake of a little recreation and intercourse with
civilized society. One is apt to become boorish from living continually shut up
in a country residence." "True, very true," said Tchichikoff. "Naturally,"
continued Maniloff. "It would be a different life if we had some pleasant
neighbours, or acquaintance with persons with whom, in some respects, we could
have some friendly intercourse and exchange opinions, talk about life and good
company, or have an argument on some scientific subject, and thus stir up the
dormant spirit, which again, as you well know, would give an impulse--"

Here he intended to express something more, and be if possible more explicit;
but finding that he had lost the thread of his own ideas, he began to
gesticulate with his hand in the air, and then continued to speak:

"Then of course the country and retirement would have many still more pleasant
attractions. But we have no such persons around us. The only recreation we enjoy
now and then is a book or a newspaper." Tchichikoff fully agreed with Maniloff's
opinion, and added, "That there can be nothing pleasanter than to live in
retirement, to delight in the scenes of nature, and to read now and then a good
book as a recreation." "But allow me to tell you," said Maniloff, "that having
no such friend with whom to exchange--"

"Oh, to be sure, that is true indeed!" interrupted Tchichikoff, "for what are
all the treasures of this world? 'Care not so much for money as for good
connections!' said some clever man somewhere." "And you know it, Pavel
Ivanovitch!" said Maniloff, whilst giving to his face not only more than its
usual expression of sweetness, but even, if possible, an expression not unlike
the mixture concocted by a clever physician of the world, who mercilessly
sweetens his drugs, in the hope of pleasing is patients all the more. "Then, one
feels a sensation--or something not unlike the 'heart's rejoicing'--something
like that which I feel now, when chance gives me the felicity--nay, allow me to
say, the exceptional gratification of seeing you here, and being delighted with
your very pleasant conversation--"

"Pray pardon me, but why do you call me and my conversation so pleasant? I am an
humble man, and nothing else," replied Tchichikoff, with great humility. "Oh, my
dear Pavel Ivanovitch, allow me to be candid. I would give away the half of my
property, if I could possess but the half of the accomplishments that you can
boast of." "On the contrary, I on my part would esteem it as the highest--"

It is impossible to say to what extent the expressions of mutual esteem and
admiration would have been carried between the two friends, if the entrance of a
servant had not interrupted them, who came to announce that dinner was ready.
"Allow me to invite you to our table," said Maniloff, respectfully. "You will
excuse us, if we cannot ask you to a dinner like those you have been accustomed
to partake of in the metropolis: with us all is simplicity--a modest; meal _Ã  la
Russe_, but offered with a candid heart," added Madame Maniloff. Hereupon the
two men had again a slight and polite difference as to who should enter before
the other, but at last Tchichikoff entered the dining-room backwards. CHAPTER
XI. On their entrance in the dining-hall, they found Madame Maniloff waiting
with her two little sons. These children were of that tender age when parents
are induced to seat them already among adults, though they still are
accommodated with high stools. Near them stood their teacher who bowed
courteously and with a smile. The lady of the house took her seat before the
soup-tureen; her guest was placed between herself and husband; the servant tied
a napkin under the chin of the little boys, and the dinner ceremonial commenced.
"What pretty little boys!" said Tchichikoff, after a while, and looking intently
at them. "What is their age?" "The elder is in his eighth year, and the younger
celebrated his sixth birth-day yesterday," answered Madame Maniloff, smiling.
"Themistoclus!" said Maniloff, whilst turning towards his elder boy, who was
just engaged in liberating his chin from the napkin which the servant bad tied
too tightly round his neck. Tchichikoff lifted up his head and frowned slightly
when he heard this classic name, of which heaven knows why Maniloff had made the
final syllable _us_; however he recovered immediately from his surprise, and his
features reassumed their wonted expression. "Themistoclus, my boy!" repeated
Maniloff, "tell me which is the finest town in France?" Here the teacher
directed all the power of his attention upon his pupil thus questioned by his
father; and it seemed as if he intended to pierce him with his glance; but he
gradually calmed down, and soon after nodded approvingly with his head, when he
heard Themistocles give the answer:

"Paris." "And which is the finest town in Russia?" demanded again Maniloff. The
master fixed his eyes again upon his pupil and frowned. "St. Petersburg,"
replied Themistocles, quickly. "And what town besides?" "Moscow," again replied
the boy with sparkling eyes, for he seemed to be sure of his lesson. "Now for
the last question," said his father, evidently pleased with his child's
progresses. "Who are the natural enemies of Russia and of Christendom?" "The
Turks; and we ought to take Constantinople from them," replied Themistocles,
with the air of a conqueror, and looking for approval towards his master. "Oh,
the clever darling!" exclaimed Tchichikoff, when he had heard all these replies.
"Really," he continued, whilst turning with an air of agreeable surprise towards
the happy parents, "I am of opinion that this little boy displays signs of great
proficiency." "Oh, you don't know him half," replied Maniloff; "he possesses a
great deal of perspicuity. As for the younger son, Alcides," (here Tchichikoff,
was startled again as before), "he is not so sharp a boy as his elder brother;
Themistoclus is livelier, and his eyes will sparkle at anything. If even an
insect, he will immediately run after it, and pay it the greatest attention. I
intend to have him educated for the diplomatic career. Themistoclus," he
continued, turning again towards the boy, "would you like to be an ambassador?"
"Oh yes, papa!" answered the child, with his mouth full of cake, and balancing
his head like a Chinese mandarin. At that very moment, the servant, who stood
behind the future ambassador, wiped that young gentleman's nose, and it was well
he did so, or else some mishap would have been the consequence. The conversation
at table now turned upon the pleasures of domestic life, and was now and then
enlivened by the observations of Madame Maniloff on the theatre and the actors
of their town. The teacher listened and looked very attentively upon the
conversing parties, and whenever he saw the company laughing at some
observations, he would at once open his mouth and join them in a most hearty
approbation. No doubt he was a man with a deep sense of gratitude, and strove to
display in this manner his acknowledgment for the treatment he met at the hands
of his employer. Once, however, he could not prevent assuming an expression of
reproof and knocking gently upon the table, while frowning at his pupils, who
sat opposite to him. This was done at an opportune moment, because Themistocles
had just bitten the ear of his brother Alcides, who instantly closed his eyes,
and opened his mouth, and was on the point of beginning a most lamentable tune;
but seeing the frowning forehead of his master, and fearing he might lose his
dinner, he brought back his mouth to its former position, and began to gnaw
lustily, with tears in his eyes at a large bone of roast mutton, which made both
his cheeks shiny with grease. The lady of the house frequently encouraged her
guest in the following manner:

"You scarcely eat anything; you have taken so very little indeed." To these
observations Tchichikoff would invariably reply:

"I am very much obliged to you, Madame; I have had plenty--besides, pleasant
intercourse surpasses the finest dish." They at last rose from table. Maniloff
seemed exceedingly pleased, and laying his hand gently on the back of his guest,
he was on the point of leading him gently into the drawing-room, when the latter
suddenly informed him, and with an air of confidential importance, that he had a
wish to converse with him on the subject of some important business. "In that
event, allow me to show you into my private room," said Maniloff, and led him
into a small adjoining chamber, the windows of which afforded a view of a gloomy
fir-tree forest looming in the distance. "This is my own little corner," added
Maniloff. "A very pretty and comfortable room," said Tchichikoff, whilst casting
a glance around. The room had really its pleasing features; the walls were
painted of a light blue colour of a greyish tint; it contained four chairs, one
arm-chair, a table; upon the latter lay the book with the marked page, of which
we had already had occasion to speak, a few writing materials, and a quantity of
tobacco. That fragrant weed was laying about in various forms and places, in
packages, in pouches and boxes, and lastly even upon the table. Upon both
windows numerous little heaps of tobacco ashes from his pipe were ranged, not
without taste, in symmetrical order. It was obvious that this arrangement
sometimes assisted the master of the house in passing his time pleasantly. "Pray
be seated in this arm-chair," said Maniloff; "here you will be more
comfortable." "I beg you will allow me to prefer this chair." "Permit me to
insist upon your' seating yourself in this arm-chair;" said Maniloff with a
smile. "This old arm-chair has been assigned by me for my friends; and,
therefore, whether you like it or not you must sit down in it." Tchichikoff
seated himself in the arm-chair. "Will you take a pipe or a cigar?" "I thank
you, but I do not smoke," replied Tchichikoff civilly, as if with an air of
regret. "And pray, why don't you?" inquired Maniloff, also civilly, and with an
air of regret. "I did not contract the habit, I am afraid, because I was told
that smoking originates consumption." "I beg to observe that this is a
prejudice. I am of opinion that to smoke a pipe is by far more healthy than
taking snuff. In my regiment we had a lieutenant who was an excellent and well-
bred officer, his pipe never quitted him, not even at table--and with your leave
--not even at any other place. At present he is more than forty years old, and
thank Heaven, as well and healthy as he could wish to be." Tchichikoff observed
that such instances were of frequent occurrence, and that there were many
phenomena in human nature, quite incomprehensible to the most cultivated mind.
"But allow me now to put you a question." He then proceeded in a tone of voice
in which there was a peculiar and nearly a strange expression, and after having
spoken the last words, he, for some reason or other looked around him. Maniloff
also looked round, but for what reason he did so, it is impossible to tell. "How
long, may I ask, if you please," continued Tchichikoff, "is it since you last
handed in to government the census of the population on your estate?" "Oh, if I
recollect rightly, it is some time since;" replied Maniloff, "but to tell the
truth, I do not exactly remember when." "And can you perhaps recollect if many
of your serfs have died since?" "I must confess I don't know!" said Maniloff
with a little embarrassment; "but I could question my steward about it. Hilloah!
Ivan! or some one else, call my steward, he ought to be here to-day." Soon
after, the manager of Maniloff's estate made his appearance. He was a man under
forty years of age, with a closely shaved head, fashionably dressed, and
evidently enjoying and spending a pleasant existence; because his fat and rosy
cheeks seemed to attest that he was well familiar with the comforts of a soft
mattress and downy pillows. It was easy to see at a glance that he had
accomplished his aim in life, as is usual among men of his calling: early in
youth he was but an adopted orphan, charitably brought up in the family of his
present master, and instructed in a little reading and writing; later he managed
to marry the house-keeper--a favourite of her ladyship's--contrived to become
housekeeper himself, until ultimately he got himself promoted to the rank of
steward. And when he had become the general manager of the estate, he did like
other stewards do: he frequented and connected himself only with the richer
families in the village, exacted more tribute from the poorer, rose at nine
o'clock in the morning, heated his samovar and took his tea comfortably. "I say,
my good fellow," Maniloff addressed himself to his humble steward; "how many of
my peasants have died since you sent the last census to government?" "Your glory
wishes to know how many? Since then many have indeed died," replied the steward,
whilst putting his hand before his mouth in lieu of a shield, to screen a slight
hiccup, which he was unable to repress. "Yes, I must confess, I thought as much
myself," added Maniloff; "just so, a great many have died since." Hereupon he
turned towards Tchichikoff, and repeated again; "exactly so, a great many have
died." "But, about how many in number?" demanded again Tchichikoff. "Yes, to be
sure, how many in number? repeated Maniloff. "Yes, your glory; but how could I
fix upon the number? It is impossible to say how many, no one has counted them,"
said the steward again, and with increasing embarrassment. "Just so," said
Maniloff, whilst turning towards his guest; "I anticipated as much; there was a
great mortality during these latter years; and I think it is difficult to say
with any precision how many have died." "You had better number the dead, my good
man;" Tchichikoff addressed himself to the steward, "and make out a correct list
of all, together with their family and Christian names." "Yes, to be sure,"
added Maniloff adopting the same positive tone of voice as his guest: "and give
their names carefully." "It shall be done, your glory!" replied the steward, and
left the room. "But for what purpose do you want these particulars?" inquired
Maniloff, after the steward had left them. This question seemed to embarrass his
guest considerably; his face flushed, his countenance betrayed uneasiness and
was altogether striking in its momentary change, and difficult to be described
in words. At last Maniloff was obliged to listen to one of the strangest and
most extraordinary proposals to which human ears were ever yet fated to listen.
"You wish to know for what purpose? The reasons are the following: I should like
to purchase some serfs--" said Tchichikoff, whilst recovering gradually; but
scarcely had he uttered the last word, when he had a sudden attack of his cough,
and did not, of course, conclude the phrase. "But allow me to ask you,"
continued Maniloff, "on what condition do you wish to purchase peasants, is it
together with the land they live upon, or do you want them for colonisation
elsewhere, that is to say, without the land they live upon?" "No, that is not
exactly what I mean," replied Tchichikoff, after a moment's hesitation, "what I
wish to purchase, are dead serfs." "What? pardon me--I am rather deaf in one
ear, but it seemed to me as if I had heard the strangest words that could
possibly be spoken." "Strange, perhaps," added Tchichikoff, more coolly than
might have been expected after his first agitation; "yes, my dear sir, I have a
wish to make the acquisition of the dead--who, however, must stand booked as
existing or living in the columns of the last governmental census." CHAPTER XII.
When Maniloff was convinced that he had rightly heard and understood what his
friend had just spoken, he could not prevent his Turkish pipe dropping upon the
floor and opening his mouth and eyes as widely as they would allow themselves to
be opened; he remained passively thus for a few seconds. Both friends, who, but
shortly before, had been familiarly discoursing on the pleasures of friendly
life and intercourse, were now sitting opposite one another immoveably, gazing
into each others eyes as if mesmerized, or like those portraits which in olden
times were hung on either side of the looking-glass. At last Maniloff mustered
animation again, picked up his pipe, and, while doing this, he looked up
seriously into the face of his companion, striving to catch, if possible, a
smile upon his lips, as if to convince himself that all was but a jest; however,
he could discover nothing to confirm him in this hope; on the contrary,
Tchichikoff's face looked, if possible, more serious and composed than usual; at
last he thought it likely his guest might have become the victim of a fit of
insanity, and as this idea occurred to him he looked with the utmost terror
fixedly at him. But no, Tchichikoff's eyes were perfectly calm and bright, there
was no wildness nor uneasiness in his glance, such as there would be in the gaze
of a madman; all his mental faculties seemed to enjoy perfect health. Maniloff
was at a loss what to imagine next, in order to account for the strange words
and intention he had heard; but he could hit upon nothing to relieve him of his
anxiety, except, letting the tobacco smoke, which the sudden surprise had made
him swallow, unconsciously escape in thin wreaths. "And thus then should I like
to know if you would agree to part with such of your serfs as are actually dead;
that is to say, not actually living, but nevertheless existing in a point of
law; I am ready to make such arrangements about them as would be most agreeable
to you." But Maniloff was still so much overwhelmed and confused, that he could
do nothing else but stare into the face of the speaker. "You seem to feel
embarrassed?" observed Tchichikoff, slowly. "I?--no, not exactly," Maniloff at
last murmured; "but I cannot comprehend--excuse me--I did not of course enjoy
such a brilliant education, such a one--if I might express myself so--as is
visible in every one of your movements; I have no talent for choice expressions
--it might be also, that here--in this instance and in the manner in which you
have just now chosen to express yourself--that there is something hidden--the
meaning of which, I must confess, I could not catch, and I must presume that you
have chosen to express yourself in this manner for the sake of a more select
construction of your phrase--"

"Oh no, my dear Sir, no," interrupted Tchichikoff, "not at all, my proposal is
like the phrase, pure and simple; I positively mean that what I said, namely: I
wish to possess such serfs as are positively dead." Maniloff was now actually
lost in amazement; yet he felt that it became incumbent on him to do or say
something; but what was he to do, what was he to say?--Heaven alone could
inspire him. He finished at last by allowing another cloud of tobacco smoke to
escape, but not as previously, out of his mouth, for this time the smoke
evaporated from his nostrils. "And now, if you have no objection, we might at
once come to an understanding and proceed to draw up the contract of sale," said
Tchichikoff. "What? a contract of sale, for the dead?" "Oh, no, my dear Sir,
no," replied Tchichikoff, with slight impatience. "We shall write down, and
presume them to be living, for such they actually are represented to be in the
last census of the whole population of the Empire, and consequently, also in a
point of law as well I am accustomed never to make the slightest deviation from
our laws--either civil or military--though I have suffered much for this
principle when I was in actual service myself, and allow me to assure you, my
duty has always been a sacred obligation to me; the law--I never deviate from
it." These last observations very much pleased Maniloff, and reassured him
considerably; but notwithstanding this assurance, it was impossible for him to
enter into the spirit of the business proposed to him, and instead of an answer,
he began to smoke so fast, that the room was soon filled with a dense fog, and
the head of his pipe became so heated, that it began to crackle like a hoarse
bassoon. It seemed as if he wished to inhale from his pipe an opinion upon the
unprecedented project of his guest; but to no purpose, his pipe continued its
crackling noise as before. "You have, perhaps, your doubts on the subject?" said
Tchichikoff. "Oh! I can assure you, not the least," rejoined Maniloff. "Do not
think for a moment that I could have the slightest reason to form any critical
opinion as regards yourself. But allow me to ask you, will this speculation, or,
in order to explain myself more distinctly--this negotiation--yes, will this
negotiation not be in contravention to the civil laws and the future views and
welfare of the Russian Empire?" After having spoken thus, Maniloff made a few
peculiar movements with his head, and looked steadfastly into Tchichikoff's
face, showing in all the lineaments of his features, and in his compressed lips,
such an undefinable expression, as perhaps never was beheld on a human face
before; and if such an expression could find its equal, it could, perhaps, only
be seen on the faces of those clever statesmen of all nations, who at the
present day are discussing the political differences between Russia and Turkey.
Tchichikoff, however, answered simply, that such a speculation, or negotiation,
would in no ways be in contravention with the civil or military laws of the
country, and the future welfare of Russia; and a moment later he added, that on
the contrary, the government would even derive an advantage, because it would
receive the payment of the lawful capitation tax. "Well, then, you think
that--?" "I am of opinion that all will be right and and well," said Tchichikoff
again. "Ah, if it is all right, then it is altogether a different thing; then I
can have no objection whatever," said Maniloff, and recovered even so far as to
assume his usual smile. "Now we shall only have to fix upon a price--"

"How--a price?" said Maniloff with a new air of surprise, and stopped short for
a while. "Is it possible that you could think that I would take money for such
serfs, who, in some respects have already ceased to exist, and consequently,
have become valueless to me? No, since you have a strange fancy for them, or, if
I might use the expression, a phantastical wish for them, I am quite agreeable
to deliver them up to you gratuitously, and am even ready to pay the expense of
the contract of sale, in order to be agreeable to you." We should deem it the
greatest act of negligence on our part, if we were to omit mentioning in the
narrative of these events, that the words thus spoken by Maniloff had the effect
of diffusing an extraordinary amount of gratification over the countenance of
his guest. However circumspect, self-possessed and prudent Tchichikoff
habitually was, yet in this instance he had every difficulty in mastering a
feeling which nearly made him jump from his seat like a goat, and such an
attempt could certainly only be caused by an excess of joy. He turned so
suddenly in his arm-chair that the woollen covering of the pillow was torn in
consequence; even Maniloff could not help looking at him with some fresh
bewilderment. Impelled by gratitude, he gave so many thanks, that the donor of
the gift could not help blushing deeply, made a negative movement with his head,
and then only found words to say, that, what he gave was a mere trifle. "Not at
all a trifle," replied Tchichikoff, warmly pressing the donor's hand. Here a
deep sigh was also allowed to escape from his broad chest, and it seemed as if
this sigh was full of the warm effusions of his feeling heart; not without some
feeling and expression in his language Tchichikoff, continued in the following
words:

"If you knew, my dear Sir, what a favour you have granted me by this apparently
trifling obligation.... to me, a man without name or fame.... Yes, truly, how
much have I not suffered? like a bark amidst the boisterous waves of the
agitated ocean.... What tribulations, what persecutions have I not experienced,
and how many and bitter were the sorrows that I have tasted! but why? would you
perhaps ask me? Because I always watched over truth, because I kept my
conscience pure, my honour intact; because I stretched forth my hand to assist
the mourning widow, and shielded the deserted orphan!" Hereupon Tchichikoff
could not help arresting the progress of a falling tear with his pocket-
handkerchief. Maniloff, too, was nearly moved to tears on hearing this eloquent
language. Both friends pressed each other's hands long and warmly, and they
looked long and silently into each other's eyes, in which a few more tears might
have been seen glittering. Maniloff seemed not disposed to part with the hand of
our hero, and continued to press it so warmly, that the other did not know how
to liberate it. At last he succeeded in extricating it gently, and said that it
would now be a good thing to conclude the contract of sale at once, and that it
would be desirable that Maniloff should come for that purpose to town at his
earliest convenience. He then rose, took his hat, and began to bow a farewell.
"What? are you going to leave us already?" said Maniloff, who had scarcely
recovered from his emotion before he was frightened again. At that moment,
Madame Maniloff entered her husband's study. "Lisinka," Maniloff exclaimed, with
a rather pitiable expression in voice and countenance, "Pavel Ivanovitch wishes
to leave us!" "Because, perhaps, we do not entertain our guest well enough,"
remarked Madame Maniloff. "My lady, here," said Tchichikoff, "here, in this
spot," saying these words, he laid his hand upon his heart, and continued: "Yes,
here shall for ever remain the recollection of the pleasant moments I have
passed in your company; and believe me, there would be no greater felicity for
me in this world, than to live--if not in the same house with you, at least in
your immediate neighbourhood." "Ah! my dear Pavel Ivanovitch," said Maniloff,
whom this idea on the part of his friend seemed rather to please, "that would
really be excellent, delicious, if we could live together under the same roof,
or under the shadow of the same poplar, and philosophise on some subject, or
launch ourselves into--"

"Oh, that would be like living in Paradise!" exclaimed Tchichikoff with a sigh.
"Farewell, my lady!" continued he, whilst pressing his lips upon the hand of
Madame Maniloff; "farewell, most esteemable friend! Pray do not forget our
little business!" "Oh, be sure of it!" replied Maniloff. "I do not bid you
farewell for more than two days at the most." All three entered again the
reception-room. "Farewell, my pretty little darlings!" exclaimed Tchichikoff,
when he beheld Alcides and Themistocles once more, who were engaged playing with
a wooden dragoon, who thanks to them, had already lost his hands and nose.
"Farewell, my little pets, you must excuse me this time for not having brought
you something, because, I must confess, I was not aware of your existence; but,
the next time I come, you may depend upon it, I shall surprise you with
something nice to play with. To you I will bring a sword; would you like to have
a sword? eh--"

"Oh, yes," replied Themistocles. "And you shall have a drum; I know you would
like to have a drum--eh?" he continued, bending down to Alcides. "Drum--bum--
bum," answered Alcides, as if he had it already. "Very well then, I will bring
you a drum, it shall be such a nice drum, that you will be able to play any tune
upon it, and then you may turrrr-rurrr-rurrr and tratata upon it as long as you
like. Farewell my little darlings! farewell!" Hereupon he kissed the little boy
upon the head, and turned with a smile towards Maniloff and his wife, with a
smile like that usually assumed by persons who wish to convey to loving parents
the innocent wishes of their children. "Pray, dear Pavel Ivanovitch," said
Maniloff, when all had already passed through the entrance, "pray, stay with us,
look at the dark clouds around." "These are but a trifle, they do not alarm an
old traveller like myself," replied Tchichikoff. "But do you know the road to
Sobakevitch's estate?" "Indeed, no, I was about asking you that question."
"Allow me then, I will immediately explain it to your coachman." Hereupon
Maniloff very civilly explained to Selifan where he would have to drive his
master to. The coachman finally understood, that he would have to pass two
turnings and take the third, then took off his hat and exclaimed; "Thanks to
your glory and long health!" Tchichikoff drove off, and was saluted with wavings
of pocket-handkerchiefs by his amiable hosts until they were out of sight.
Maniloff continued to stand and linger upon the stone steps before his house for
some considerable time, and followed with his eyes the now fast disappearing
britchka, and when he had already completely lost sight of it, he still
continued to gaze into the distance and smoke his pipe. At last he entered the
house and went into his own room, where he seated himself upon a chair opposite
to the seat occupied previously by his guest; he began to give way to
reflections, and was heartily rejoiced that he had had an opportunity of having
been agreeable to his new acquaintance. After having thus meditated for some
time, his thoughts began to wander upon some other subject, until at last he
lost himself, heaven knows in what reflections. He also thought of the blessings
of friendly intimacy; he began to imagine, how pleasant it would be to live
together with a faithful friend on the banks of some silvery stream; he then
began to construct a stone bridge across his imaginary river, and concluded by
building a splendid castle in the Spanish style, so high and beautiful, that he
could behold Moscow the Holy from its turrets; nor did he forget either to
imagine a magnificent Venetian balcony, where he beheld himself and his bosom
friend, comfortably taking tea in the evening, and smoking real Turkey whilst
having a pleasant argument. He continued to imagine, that he and Tchichikoff
received an invitation to an evening party from some high functionary, and that
they drove up to his house in a splendid carriage and four, that they were
received in the best company; and finally, that one of the imperial ministers
(of the foreign cabinet,) being informed of the exemplary friendship existing
between the two friends, informed his Majesty the Emperor of its existence, and
that they were promoted to the rank of generals in consequence. Thus he
continued to dream on, until at last he lost himself again in his _chÃ¢teaux
d'Espagne_. But suddenly he recovered his consciousness, thanks to the
extraordinary application of his friend Tchichikoff, which he could not forget
on any account; though it was of no use for him to think and study the nature
and purpose of this strange whim of his friend, for he could not, either explain
to himself the object, nor find the solution of this extraordinary negotiation
as he still termed it, in his own mind. Thus he continued to sit in the same
chair and smoke his pipe until he was called to supper, and went to bed at a
late hour. CHAPTER XIII. Tchichikoff was reclining comfortably, and in an
excellent temper of mind in his britchka, which was now rolling rapidly along
the high road. In the preceding chapters a little something has already
transpired with reference to what his principal object consisted in, what his
taste and inclination were, and for that reason it cannot be surprising that he,
soon after his departure from Maniloff's house, plunged body and soul into a
reverie upon what had passed between himself and his new friend. Supposition,
circumspection, anticipation seemed in turn to occupy his mind; and his
speculations must have been of a pleasant nature, for his face betrayed it; and
he seemed, as it were, to smile inwardly. Thus engrossed with his own thoughts,
he did not pay the slightest attention to his coachman Selifan, who in his turn
and in consequence of the excellent reception which he had met with among
Maniloff's servants, was engaged in giving a lecture peculiar to himself, to the
tiger-spotted outside horse, the reins of which he held fast in his right hand.
This tiger-spotted horse, as he used to call it, was, in his opinion a very sly
and vicious animal indeed, for it only pretended to pull as hard as its two
helpmates, whilst the brown insider or leader, who was of a more straightforward
disposition, was doing his work most heartily. The natural fondness of Russian
coachmen for their horses, goes frequently so far that they will speak to them
as if to rational beings, and such a discourse, if it may be called so, took
place between Selifan and his three horses that were attached before the
britchka. "Oh, you artful scamp; but wait a moment, I'll dodge you!" said
Selifan, rising slightly upon his seat and giving a smack with his whip to the
idler. "I'll teach you what your duty is, you German pantaloon. The brown one is
a respectable horse, for he is doing his work like a horse, and I shall give him
with pleasure an extra measure, because he is an honourable horse, and so is the
leader too. Na, nuh! you are shaking your head, are you? You are a fool; listen,
I'll tell you, when you are spoken to! for I shall not teach you anything that
is wrong, you Master Careless! Look up! where you are going!" Here he gave him
another hearty correction with his whip and added: "Oh, you robber of a horse!"
After this he indulged all three with a shout as the Jamtchicks are accustomed
to do. "Halloah yo, my darlings!" and laid the whip gently across their
shoulders, but not with a feeling of anger, but by way of encouragement, as if
satisfied with all three. Having thus shown them a little of his approbation, he
again addressed his observations to the tiger-spotted idler. "No, my fine
fellow, you must be steady if you wish the world to acknowledge your merits.
Look you here and listen; at the gentleman's house where we have been, there are
some worthy people, and such persons I like to speak to and have some
intercourse with; because everyone likes to be on friendly terms with good
people. I had tea with them and ate and drank many a good thing there, because
it gives me pleasure to do so among worthy people. A virtuous man meets with due
respect everywhere. Look for an example at our master, he is esteemed by
everybody; because, now, will you listen? because he served his country and the
Emperor well, and is now a Councillor of State in consequence." Thus reasoning,
Selifan lost himself at last in the most abstract arguments. And if Tchichikoff
had been listening he might have heard the most curious and interesting
observations concerning himself personally; but his thoughts were so much
occupied with his own projects, that a sudden, and loud clap of thunder alone
could awake him to the scene around him, and cause him to look up again at the
exterior world; the sky was covered with heavy dark clouds in all directions,
and the dusty high road became sprinkled with heavy rain-drops. Soon after the
thunder-peals were more frequent, they grew louder and nearer, and at last the
rain came down as if out of a bucket. At first the rain came sideways, and fell
heavily on the left flank of the britchka, then it changed suddenly and washed
its other side, until at last it began to fall horizontally upon the leathern
roof of the carriage and continued to drum upon it with renewed power, and the
drops at last reached even the face of our traveller. This induced him to draw
down the leathern blind with its round glass holes, through which he began to
examine the scenes around him and give the order to Selifan to drive quicker.
Selifan also, had been unpleasantly interrupted in the midst of his reflections,
and without losing an instant he produced from under his seat a something in the
shape of a miserable-looking grey cloth cloak into the tattered sleeves of which
he slipped his arms as speedily as the numerous holes would allow him to do, and
then snatching up again the reins, he used once more his whip; and his troika
sped on again with fresh vigour, as if the rain as well as Selifan's mode of
encouraging them had had the most invigorating effects upon the horses. As for
Selifan, he could not for the life of him remember whether he had passed the
second or the third turning. Imagining a great deal and recollecting a little of
the road he had just passed, he guessed that he had already left many a turning
on either side of the road behind him. Thus then like many Russians, never at a
loss for imagination what to do next in a decisive moment, and without venturing
into long speculations, he took the first turning to his right and shouting
again: "halloah yo, my darlings!" he drove his horses into a full gallop, never
caring for a moment, whither this road may lead him next. The rain seemed to
have set in with the appearance to last for sometime. The dust of the high-road
was now converted into a thick paste of mud, and with every moment it became
more difficult for the horses to pull through it. Tchichikoff already began to
feel uneasy at not seeing anything yet of Sobakevitch's estate, for, according
to his calculations, they ought to have been there long ago. He tried again to
look through the glass holes of his leather curtains; but to no purpose, it
seemed as if an Egyptian darkness surrounded them. "Selifan!" he at last shouted
and popped his head out through the curtain. "What does your glory wish?"
replied Selifan. "Look about you, don't you see the village yet?" "No, your
glory, I cannot see it anywhere." After having spoken thus, Selifan belaboured
his horses once more and began a song--no, rather a tune, like the "Lieder ohne
Worte" of Mendelsohn Bartholdy--without an end. In this tune were comprised all
the sounds of approbation and reproach addressed to all the horses by their
drivers, throughout the vast expanse of the Russian Empire, from one extremity
to the other; suitable under all circumstances just as it comes to the mind and
upon the tongue, naturally, without choice or preparation. Meanwhile,
Tchichikoff began to feel that his britchka was balancing about on all sides,
and dealt him many an unpleasant shaking and severe knocks; these unpleasant
sensations brought him to the conclusion that they must have deviated from the
high-road, and were now driving over some uneven field. Selifan seemed also to
be under the same impression, however, he did not say a word about it. "You
blunderbuss, upon what road are you driving me now?" Tchichikoff inquired
angrily. "What am I to do, your glory! it is so very dark, indeed, I cannot even
see my whip!" Saying this, he drove the britchka so carelessly that it was
nearly upset from the sudden shock, and Tchichikoff was obliged to cling with
both hands to his seat. Then, and not till then, it was that he conjectured his
coachman Selifan was not sober. "Stop, stop, you will upset me!" he cried out to
him. "Oh, no, your glory! how could I? how could I upset your honour?" said
Selifan. "It is a bad thing to be upset, I know it well myself; how could I
therefore upset you, I certainly shall not upset you." Hereupon he began
cautiously to turn the britchka round and round again, until he had at last
succeeded in turning it all upon one side. Tchichikoff fell out of his carriage
and lay there with his hands and feet deeply imbedded in the mud. Selifan had,
however, succeeded in stopping his troika, though the horses would have done so,
no doubt, from their own accord, for they seemed very much exhausted. Such an
unexpected mishap had completely bewildered him; he crept down from his seat and
posted himself before the britchka, with both his hands firmly fixed on his
sides, whilst his master was still trying to raise himself up again upon his
legs; thus glancing for a moment upon his master and the carriage before him he
added with an air of incredible surprise: "And I have upset him!" "You are as
drunk as a trooper!" exclaimed Tchichikoff. "Oh, no, your glory! how could I be
drunk? I know it is a bad thing to be drunk, I have been talking to some
friends, that is true; but then, it is a good thing to speak to worthy men, in
that there can be no harm. I must confess we had a bit and a sup, but then there
can be no harm in having something to eat and drink with worthy people." "But
what did I tell you the last time you got drunk--eh? Have you forgotten it?"
inquired Tchichikoff. "Oh, no, your glory! how could I have forgotten what you
told me I know my duty well. I know, it is bad to get drunk. I have only been
speaking to some worthy friends, because I--"

"Only wait until you get a good thrashing again," interrupted Tchichikoff; "and
then you will know what it is to speak to worthy people." "Just as it may please
your glory!" replied Selifan, with an air of resignation, "if I am to have a
thrashing, I must, have it; I shall not escape it. And why should I not be
punished if it is my fault, you as my master have a right to do so. It is also
necessary that mouzhiks should be punished, now and then, to keep them in
subordination and good order. If it is my own fault, then it is but just that I
should be punished; and why should I not receive a thrashing?" To such logical
reasoning, his lawful master could not possibly imagine what he was to reply.
But at that very moment also, it seemed as if Providence itself had taken his
pitiable position into commiseration. In the distance the loud barking of dogs
was audible. Tchichikoff, overjoyed, gave immediate instructions to his coachman
that he should drive on at full speed. A Russian driver has often an excellent
sense of presentiment instead of the sense of sight; for that reason it often
happens that he will close his eyes, drive on full gallop, and yet arrive
somewhere. Selifan, without hearing or seeing anything, had nevertheless
succeeded in guiding his horses upon a road which led them straight into the
village; and they stopped only then, when the horses and britchka came violently
in contact with the gates of a house, and when it was already impossible to
drive on any further. All that Tchichikoff could perceive through the dark flood
of rain was the roof of a house; he immediately ordered Selifan to go and find
out the gates, which, no doubt, would have taken him a considerable time, if in
Russia we had not excellent country dogs, instead of drowsy porters, who, in
this instance, announced the arrival of our strangers so loudly, that Selifan
himself was obliged to stop up both his ears. A light began to dawn in one of
the windows and threw a foggy glimmer straight in the direction of our
travellers, who were able to find the gates at last. Selifan began to knock, and
soon after a small gate was opened through which the head of a figure wrapped in
a sheep-skin made its appearance, and master and servant were obliged to listen
to a woman's creaking voice, uttering the question of: "Who is there? and why
are you making all this noise?" "We are travellers, my good woman, allow us to
pass the night here," Tchichikoff pronounced in a faint voice. "What hurried
travellers you seem to be, for look here at the time of night!" the old woman
again said, "besides, this is not an inn, a noble lady resides here." "What are
we to do, good mother--you perceive we have lost our way; and surely you cannot
expect us to sleep on the steps." "Yes, the night is dark, and the rain is
pouring down in torrents," added Selifan. "Be silent, you fool," said
Tchichikoff. "But who are you?" demanded the old woman. "I am, a nobleman, good
woman." The word, nobleman, seemed to startle the old woman, and make her
reflect. "Wait a little, I'll go and tell her ladyship," the old female
muttered, and in a few minutes later she made her appearance, again, with a
lantern in her hands. The gates were thrown open. A light even began to glitter
in another window. The britchka entered the court-yard, and stopped before a
small house, which it was impossible to examine more particularly on account of
the utter darkness around it. Only one portion of it was dimly illumined by the
light proceeding from the window, a puddle formed by the heavy rain and flowing
rapidly along before the house, was also visible in the same light. The rain
pattered noisily upon the wooden roof, and streamed in loud jets into a large
water-tub. Meanwhile, the house dogs joined into a loud discordant howling; the
one threw his head back and set up such a long and plaintive howl, as if he
were, Heaven knows generously paid for it; another replied to the first in a
particular hoarse voice, as if he had already done his best in the concert;
whilst a third joined them with a shrill ringing tone, not unlike a post-horse
bell; it seemed to be the tenor voice of a juvenile dog; and all their canine
voices were drowned at intervals by a deep base bark, undoubtedly a paternal
barker, provided with an inexhaustible doggish nature, because he rattled away
his tune in such a determined manner, that it would forcibly remind one of a
counter-bass voice in a concert, when in the full tide of tone, the tenor
raising himself on tip-toes, impelled by a strong desire to sing forth his
highest note, and all in fact raise themselves, and their voice as high as
possible. At such decisive moments, whilst they throw their heads back, the
tenor alone will be sometimes original, and hide his unshaved chin in his white
neck-cloth, sit down, or bend forward nearly to the ground, and yet send forth
from his hiding place, his note, as loud and audible as to shake the very
windows of the concert-room. From the simple barking of these canine musicians,
it was easy to surmise that the village must have been something extraordinary,
too; but our wet and frozen hero thought for that moment of nothing else but a
warm bed. The britchka had had scarcely time to stop before the entrance of the
house, when he already hastened to alight, and jumped cleverly upon the landing,
gave himself a considerable shaking, and nearly fell the to ground. CHAPTER XIV.
Another woman, rather younger, but very much like the first in appearance, now
made her exit from the house upon the landing-steps before it. She led the
stranger into the house, and then into a room. Tchichikoff cast two hasty
glances around him whilst entering; the apartment was decorated with old and
old-fashioned striped paper-hangings. Between the windows there were some
pictures representing various species of birds; small rococo-fashioned looking-
glasses, with dark frames, in the shape of curled leaves were suspended in a
great variety around on the walls; behind each of them, or rather in the frames,
were placed, either letters, an old pack of cards, or a stocking; an old clock
with Roman figures, intermixed with flowers, also hung on the wall and was
ticking loudly. It was impossible to notice more with two glances only. Besides
Tchichikoff felt as if some one had besmeared his eyes with honey, for he had
the greatest difficulty in keeping them open. A few minutes later, and the lady
of the house made her appearance. She was an elderly person, and entered with a
species of nightcap and a flannel hurriedly thrown round her neck. She was one
of those noble ladies who reside on their estates, because she was not rich
enough in her opinion to live in town--one of those old women who continually
complain of bad harvests and severe losses in their household, and who have the
habit of keeping their heads bent on one side, whilst they meanwhile know how to
heap money into narrow bags, and hide them in all the drawers and upon all the
shelves available. In one of these little bags, they will keep nothing else but
the shiny silver roubles, in another only the half-roubles, in a third again a
few golden imperials, and so on till they have a whole collection of all the
coins of the Empire. At first sight, it would seem that these drawers contain
nothing else but articles of wardrobe, such as night-caps, stockings, linen,
night-gowns, reals of cotton, old silken cloaks cut up for the purpose of being
transformed into a gown, as soon as the one in use is worn out or burnt
somewhere at the elbow, whilst the old lady was superintending the baking and
cooking of holiday pastries. But they are too careful; the old gown does not run
with them the risk of being burnt or worn out at the elbows, or anywhere else so
soon; and the careful old lady generally leaves the cut up silken cloak for some
smiling niece or widow-sister, together with her little bags containing the
collection of all these precious coins as well as her night-caps, sacks and
cottons. Tchichikoff apologised, and begged to be excused for arriving so late
at night. "Never mind, never mind," said the old lady; "in what wretched weather
Heaven has brought you here! After such fatigues it would certainly be desirable
to eat and drink something warm, but it is so very late that it will be quite
impossible to prepare anything." The last words of the matron were interrupted
by such a strange, hissing noise that her guest could not help feeling
frightened; this peculiar alarming sound resembled the hissing of serpents,
which seemed to have made a sudden appearance in the room; but on looking
upwards, Tchichikoff felt tranquilized, for he discovered that the antique dock
hanging on the wall was on the point of making an attempt to strike. After this
strange hissing, immediately a rattling, and at last, after mustering all its
mechanical strength, the clock succeeded in striking two; but with such a sound,
that it seemed as if some one was striking with a stick against a broken
saucepan. After this effort of the time-piece, the pendulum again continued its
usual monotonous tick-tack as before mentioned. Tchichikoff bowed courteously
and thanked the old lady for what she said, and begged to assure her that he
wanted nothing so much as a bed, and was only anxious to know in what part of
the country he was, and how distant the estate of his friend Sobakevitch might
be from her estate. Upon this inquiry, the old lady replied, that she had never
heard of such a name, and that she was of opinion that such a person was not to
be found anywhere around in her neighbourhood. "The name of the landowner
Maniloff is perhaps better known to you?" Tchichikoff remarked. "And who is
Maniloff?" "An owner of some extensive estates, my good Madam." "No, I have not
heard of such a name either--he does not live here about." "And pray, what
country gentlemen have you in your neighbourhood?" "We have Bobroff, Svinin,
Kanapatieff, Harpakin, Trepakin, Pleschakoff, Senunoff--" "And pray, Madam,"
Tchichikoff interrupted her quickly, anxious to avoid the recitation of a
catalogue of names, "are they rich and wealthy?" "No, my dear Sir, there are but
few rich or wealthy among them. Some of them have about twenty to thirty, others
again from forty to fifty serfs; but of those who possess about four hundred
peasants there are very few." Tchichikoff perceived at once that he had arrived
into a quite out-of-the-way neighbourhood. "How far am I from town my good
lady?" "About sixty wersts. How sorry I am, to be sure, that I have nothing
eatable to lay before you; would you perhaps like to take a cup of tea?" "I am
very much obliged to you indeed, but at the present moment I wish for nothing
else but a bed." "You are right, after such an unpleasant journey, nothing could
be more desirable, I therefore invite you, my good Sir, to make yourself as
comfortable as possible upon this sofa. Fetinia, bring a feather mattress, a
pillow, and some blankets. In what awful weather providence has been pleased to
send you to me! What a thunder-storm! I have kept my candle burning all night
long before the image of my patron-saint. But, my good Sir, you are covered with
mud like a wild hoar all over your back and left side! Where have you been pray,
to appear in such a disorderly state?" "Thank heaven that I am only besmeared
and that my sides are whole." "Oh ye, my good saints, what horrors! But do you
not want something to rub your back with?" "I thank you, my good lady, I thank
you very much indeed; but pray do not incommode yourself any further on my
account, I shall only ask you to tell your maid to dry and clean my coat to-
morrow." "Do you hear, Fetinia?" said the old lady, turning to the younger
woman, who entered the room that moment with a candle in her hand, and who had
already previously brought in the things her mistress had ordered. She was now
in the act of heating up with both hands an enormous feather-bed, which, in
consequence of being thus handled, sent forth a cloud of down, which instantly
filled the room. "You must take that gentleman's clothes to-morrow morning, and
dry them well before the fire, as you did with those of your late master, and
then rub the mud out carefully, and clean them properly." "Very well, my lady!"
answered Fetinia, whilst spreading the blankets over the mattress, and pulling
the pillow on the bed. "Now, Sir, your bed is ready," said the old matron, after
having cast a careful glance over it. "Farewell, my good Sir, I wish you a
pleasant night and rest. But is there, perhaps, anything you would wish for yet?
You might perhaps be accustomed, my good gentleman, or like to have your feet
scratched by somebody. My late husband would never go to deep unless this was
done to him." But her guest was so rude as to decline having his feet tickled.
The old lady retired, and Tchichikoff began to undress himself immediately,
handing over to Fetinia all that he stripped himself of, and it consisted of
every article of clothing; Fetinia, after having wished him a good night's rest
in her turn, took the wet paraphernalia of our hero and retired also, closing
the door after her. When Tchichikoff was thus left alone, he looked, not without
a great deal of satisfaction, upon his couch, which nearly reached to the
ceiling; Fetinia seemed to be a clever hand at beating up a feather mattress. He
approached his bed and got upon a chair close to it, from this he precipitated
himself into it, and felt descending to the floor; the sudden pressure of his
body upon the mattress had the effect of sending forth again a new volley of
down, which filled every corner of the small room. After having blown out his
candle, Tchichikoff rolled himself up in his blankets like a newborn child is
wrapped up in its linen, and fell immediately fast asleep. He awoke the next
morning at a very late hour; the sun was shining through his window straight
into his face, and the flies, which the previous night had slept quietly in
their corners on the walls and ceiling, now began to turn all their attention
upon our hero; one of them took its seat upon his lips, another upon his ear,
and a third Seemed to study how it could manage to gain footing upon his eye,
but those which had had the imprudence to come too close to his nose, became the
victims of their own folly, for he inhaled them whilst taking breath,
unconsciously, in his somnolent state, and this operation upon the flies made
him sneeze; this circumstance was also the cause of his suddenly awaking. On
casting a glance around the room, he now observed, that all the paintings did
not represent birds as he thought on the previous evening; among them was a
portrait of Prince Paskievitch, and another oil-painting representing an old
man, in a military frock-coat with red sleeves; a costume as worn during the
reign of the late eccentric Emperor, Paul the First. The dock began again its
unpleasant serpentine clatter and struck ten broken kettle strokes; a woman's
face peeped through the half-opened door, but withdrew immediately, for it
seemed that Tchichikoff had thrown off his blankets during the night, in the
hope of sleeping better no doubt. It seemed to him as if the head that had been
just peeping into the room was familiar to him. He began to collect his
thoughts; on asking himself the question, who it might have been, at last he
recollected that it must have been the old lady and proprietress of the house.
He put on his shirt, his clothes were already dried and cleaned, and were lying
close to his bed. When he was dressed, he stepped before the looking-glass and
sneezed again so loudly, that a turkey-cock, which was just then passing under
his window, which was very low, on the ground-floor, began to roll his voice
like a drummer, as is customary among these original birds, no doubt wishing
Tchichikoff a good morning in his own fashion, upon which the poor animal was
called a fool by our hero. This salutation, however, brought Tchichikoff close
to the window, and he began to examine the scene before him. The window opened
to all appearance upon nothing else but a poultry-yard; at least, what he beheld
before his sight was a narrow court, filled with a numerous variety of domestic
birds. Turkey-cocks and fowls seemed numberless; in the midst of them a common
house-cock was walking proudly up and down with measured steps, shaking his comb
fiercely and leaning his head on one side, as if he was listening to something,
a pig and her offspring also made themselves conspicuous; they were all digging
with their snouts in a heap of cinders, meanwhile, the mother caught hold of a
young chicken and ate it up quite accidentally whilst grunting with a degree of
satisfaction at the tender morsel; then she continued to dig on again as before,
and as if nothing at all unusual had happened. This narrow court or poultry-
yard, was separated by a wooden wall, beyond which extended some large fields,
where cabbage, onions, potatoes, carrots, and many other household vegetables
were growing in great abundance. In the midst of this orchard and in a great
confusion, grew scattered here and there some apple, cherry, plum, and other
fruit trees and shrubs, all covered over with nets, to protect them from the
depredations of sparrows and other birds. There was a swarm of the former flying
about from one spot to another. To keep these daring enemies of the orchard more
effectually from plundering the fruit trees and vegetables, there were several
guys in different places with outstretched arms; upon the head of one of them
and in order to make him the more frightful-looking, a nightcap of the old lady
had been placed. Beyond the orchard, were several corn-fields, flanked by the
huts of her ladyship's peasants, which, although built irregularly, and not in
straight lines or streets, seemed, nevertheless, to confirm Tchichikoff's
opinion that the old lady was rather comfortably circumstanced, because they
were kept in good repair. The usual straw roofs appeared all to have been
recovered with fresh materials; the gates and doors had their hinges in good
repair, and such of the stables and stalls which were open to his inspection,
showed some new and well-made carts and sledges. In some of them he could count
two and even three of each description. "Well, I am sure, who would have thought
that the village is not so unimportant as one would believe it at first sight,"
murmured Tchichikoff to himself, and thereupon he made up his mind to have a
conversation with the old lady, and try to make a better acquaintance with her
upon his all-engrossing subject. CHAPTER XV. Our hero now, in his turn, peeped
through an aperture of the door through which the old lady had popped her head a
quarter of an hour before, and perceiving her sitting before a small tea table,
he entered the room in a cheerful and flattering manner. "Good morning, my dear
Sir; how have you passed the night?" said the old lady whilst slightly rising
from her seat. She was better dressed than on the previous night; she wore a
black silk dress, and no longer had the nightcap on her head, but still there
was something twisted round her neck. "Very well, very well indeed," answered
Tchichikoff, seating himself in an arm-chair. "And how did you sleep, my dear
Madam?" "Not at all, my good Sir." "And pray, what was the reason?" "Indeed, I
passed a sleepless night. My back and spine cause me great pain, and my foot all
above the ancle, the higher up the leg, the more I suffer." "It will pass over,
I am sure it will, my dear good lady. Do not take so much notice." "I pray to
God, it would pass over. I continually use some bears' grease, as well as
friction, with turpentine. But allow me to ask you, what would you like to take
with your tea? I have some very good cherry-brandy in this small decanter."
"That will be very nice, my good lady, for I am very fond of cherry-brandy." My
intelligent reader will already have observed, that Tchichikoff, though polite,
spoke nevertheless, with a rather civil familiarity, when compared to his
manners at Maniloff's house, in fact he stood on no ceremony with the old lady,
and made himself comfortable. Here I might also be allowed to make the
observation, that we other Russians, though we might not, and cannot in many
things rival our more western friends, yet in what term the good manners and
behaviour, we have outdone by far the most civilized nations. It is quite
impossible to enumerate all the numerous shades and _finesses_ of our good
manners. An Englishman or a Frenchman can impossibly form an idea or understand
all the peculiarities and differences in our Russian conduct. Englishmen or
Frenchmen will speak with pretty nearly the same tone of voice and courtesy to a
_millionaire_ as they would employ to a greengrocer, though within themselves
they would or might give a decided preference to the former. But with us it is
not so. We can boast of many clever persons who would speak quite differently to
a landed proprietor possessing two hundred serfs than to one who owns three
hundred peasants; and with him who owns three hundred they would again not talk
in the same tone of voice as with the owner of five hundred; and with the
proprietor who owns five hundred again not so as with the owner of eight
hundred; in a word, you may increase by degrees the ownership to a million, and
you may yet depend upon still meeting with shades of differences in their tone
of voice as well as manners. Let us suppose for a moment that we enter one of
the numerous imperial offices established for the administration of law and
justice in any of the more important towns of the Empire, and that such an
imperial office is presided over by a person called the Manager of the
Chancellerie. I would beg my courteous reader to muster courage and look at that
person at the moment when he is sitting in his place surrounded by all his
inferiors; you will be assailed by something more than respect or fear, nay, I
venture to say that you will be incapable of pronouncing a syllable; for what
pride or dignity does not his face express? You could not do better than take up
a brush and paint a Prometheus--a real Prometheus! His glance is like that of an
eagle! his walk is easy and regular. And that very same proud eagle, as soon as
he leaves that same seat of his greatness to approach the cabinet of _his_
superior, becomes as alert as a long-legged snipe, and hurries with his
documents under his arm as if he was pursued by a hawk. In society, and
especially at evening parties, though Prometheus is not of an exalted rank, yet
he remains the same proud and conceited man; but as soon as he happens to meet
with some one higher in dignity, such a metamorphosis takes place with our
Prometheus, that even Ovid would have had the greatest difficulty in describing
him properly. He has become a fly--no, even less than a fly--he has reduced
himself to a grain of sand! But this is not my friend Ivan Petrovitch, you would
say in looking at him. Ivan Petrovitch is taller, and this is a little, sickly-
looking person; the other speaks in a loud bass voice, and is never wont to
smile, but this person warbles like a bird, and laughs continually. And yet, if
you go near and examine him closer, you will find it is your friend Ivan
Petrovitch. Aha! oho! will be your exclamation. However it is time for us to
return again to our _dramatis persona_. Tchichikoff, as we have already
perceived, had come to the resolution of standing on no ceremony with the old
lady, and, therefore, took up a cup of tea, poured some of the cherry-brandy
into it, and began the following conversation with his hostess:

"You have a fine estate and village, my good lady. Pray, how many serfs do you
possess?" "Well, my dear Sir, I have about eighty souls living in yonder
village," the matron answered; "but oh, misery! the times are bad, and besides,
I had a bad harvest last year; may the Lord have mercy upon us!" "However, to
judge from appearances, your peasants look healthy, and their huts are in good
repair. But allow me to inquire your name? Pardon me, I am so very absent--I
arrived so very late at night--"

"My name is Korobotchka, I am the widow of the late Secretary of the Manor." "I
am very much obliged to you for the information. And pray, what are your
Christian names?" "Anastasia Petrovna, if you please." "Anastasia Petrovna? a
very fine name that of Anastasia Petrovna. I have an aunt, a sister of my
mother's, whose name is also Anastasia Petrovna." "And pray, what is your name?"
inquired the widow of the late Secretary. "You are, no doubt, as far as I can
guess, one of our district judges?" "No, my good lady," replied Tchichikoff,
smiling. "You have not guessed rightly, for I am not a judge, but I travel for
my own little affairs." "Ah! then you must be a public contractor. How very much
I regret now that I sold my honey so cheap to those merchants; I am sure, my
good Sir, you would have bought the honey of me." "Pardon me, but I think I
should not have bought your honey." "What else? Perhaps some flax? But alas! I
have very little at the present moment, perhaps not more than half a pud." "No,
my good lady, but I might buy perhaps some other kind of goods; tell me, if you
please, have many of your peasants died lately?" "Oh, my dear Sir, I lost
eighteen men!" said the matron, with a deep sigh. "And it was a severe loss to
me, for those who died were such healthy and hard-working peasants. It is true,
since they died others again have been born; but what good are they as yet? they
are all too young. I had but recently a visit from the judge, who came to claim
the imperial capitation tax. Those eighteen are dead, and yet I have to pay the
tax upon them all the same till the next census is taken. Last week a fire
destroyed my smith, and that is again a severe loss, he was such an ingenious
artisan, for he could even do locksmith's work." "So you have suffered from a
fire? this is sad indeed, my good lady." "May God preserve me from such a
calamity! for a real fire would be worse still; the smith burned himself to
death, my good Sir. Somehow, a fire took place within his own body; he had been
drinking too much, for a blue flame seemed to consume him, he smouldered, and
became as black as a coal; but you can have no idea what an ingenious workman he
was; and now I shall not be able to drive out at all, for I have no one to shoe
my horses." "All calamities are the decrees of Providence, my dear lady," said
Tchichikoff, with a sigh; "the wisdom of God is beyond our understanding. You
had better let me have them, my excellent Anastasia Petrovna?" "Whom, my dear
Sir?" "Well, all those that are dead." "But how am I to let you have them?" "My
good lady, that is quite simple. Or, if you like it better, sell them to me. I
am even willing to pay you some money for them." "But how is this? I really
cannot understand you. Could you really intend to dig them up again out of their
graves?" Tchichikoff now perceived that the matron had gone too far, and that it
became necessary to explain to her in what his proposal and business were to
consist. In a few words, he made her understand, that the transfer, or sale,
would only exist upon paper, and that her dead serfs would be noted down in that
document as existing, or, more properly speaking, living. "But pray, what do you
want them for?" said the old lady, in opening her eyes as wide as surprise would
allow it. "That is my business," replied Tchichikoff, drily. "But they are
positively dead, my good Sir!" "And who says that they are living? Your loss
consists in their being dead; you have still to pay the capitation tax for them
as regularly as before, is it not so? Very well, then; I am ready to deliver you
from all further trouble and payment on their account. Do you comprehend me now?
I offer, not only to take them off your hands, but I am even willing to pay you
the amount of fifteen roubles. Now, I hope the matter will be dear to you?"
"Really, I don't know," the old lady said, hesitatingly. "Because, I never in my
life sold any dead serfs before." "What next, pray! This would be rather a
wonder if you had sold any to anybody before. Or do you imagine, perhaps, that
there is really any advantage to be derived from dead serfs?" "No, that I do not
believe. Of what use would they be? certainly of none whatever. The only thing
that embarrasses me is, that they are really dead." "Well, I am sure, this old
woman seems to be of an obstinate disposition," thought Tchichikoff. "Listen, my
excellent lady. Pray, reflect upon it seriously; you are ruining yourself. You
have to pay a tax for them as if they, were positively living." "Oh, pray, my
good Sir, do not mention it, even!" interrupted the widow. "Only last week I
took more than one hundred and fifty roubles to the office of the Receiver-
General And I had to bribe the judge besides." "There, then, don't you see it,
my dear, good lady. Now, I beg you will take into consideration and imagine that
you will have no more occasion to bribe either of the tax-gatherers, because I
shall undertake to pay for them; I, not you; I take all and every responsibility
upon myself. I am even disposed to defray the expense of the necessary contract
of sale; do you understand that?" The old lady began to make her reflections.
The proposed transaction seemed to her to be a profitable one, with the
exception, however, that this was quite a novel and unheard-of business; and for
that reason she began to feel considerable apprehension lest this strange
purchaser might take some undue advantage of her. He arrived at her house
without a formal introduction, and Heaven only knew whence he came; besides, he
had made his appearance at so very late an hour of the night. "Well, my good
lady, does the offer suit you?" demanded Tchichikoff. "Truly, my good Sir, but
it has never happened to me to sell deceased people. I have been in the habit of
selling some of my living serfs, and I remember now that I sold two pretty
little girls, about three years ago, to our pope, and he has been exceedingly
pleased with them ever since, for they have become very clever maids; they can
weave napkins and towels now most beautifully." "There is no question about the
living between us, God bless them. I want your dead." "Really, I am rather
fearful at my first trial in such a business, lest I might suffer some severe
loss in the transaction. Pardon my candour, but you might wish to impose upon
me, my good Sir, and they--yes, they might be worth something more." "Listen,
good mother--how strange you are to be sure! can you think them to be worth
anything? Just oblige me by reflecting for a moment; they are nothing else but
dust. Do you understand me? they are simply dust! Take for example the most
trifling or the most worthless thing, suppose even a dirty rag, and yet you will
find that rag worth something; that article will at least be bought at some
paper-mills, whilst what I want of you cannot be made use of in any way; now
then, pray tell me, of what use could they be to you?" "My good Sir, you are
right enough, they are of no value to me whatever, and the only reason that
makes me hesitate, is that they are already dead." "Oh, the blockhead of an old
woman!" said Tchichikoff to himself, whilst beginning to lose, by degrees, his
wonted patience and forbearance, "the devil may come to an understanding with
her! I feel the perspiration already running down my back, thanks to the old
she-dragon!" Whereupon he produced his pocket-handkerchief and began to dry his
forehead, which was really covered with heavy drops of perspiration. However,
Tchichikoff was wrong in getting into a passion, for many another respectable
and imperial person is as dull in the comprehension of business matters as Lady
Korobotchka appeared to be, and may prove themselves and their heads as empty as
a band-box; whenever they take to an opinion, they will stick to it with an
obstinacy from which no argument, no proofs will ever dissuade them; though they
may be as bright as noon-day, they continue to recoil from it, like an india-
rubber ball will rebound when thrown against the wall. After having wiped away
the heavy dew-drops from his forehead, Tchichikoff determined to try if he could
not bring her upon the right path by another way. "My good lady," he said,
"either you do not wish to understand me, or you speak thus for the sake of
speaking. I offer you money--fifteen roubles in bank notes. Do you now
understand me? This is a sum which you will not pick up in the open street.
Oblige me, and tell me candidly, at what price did you sell your honey to those
merchants?" "At twelve roubles the pud." "I fancy, my good lady, you are
burthening your conscience with a light sin; you could not have sold it at
twelve roubles the pud." "My patron saint is my witness that I did so." "Very
well then, I believe you, but mark me now! for that money you had to give your
honey; you perhaps spent a whole year in gathering it, and perhaps with much
care, trouble, and anxiety too; you have been watching your bee-hives during the
summer and have been obliged to nurse them throughout our long winter months,
whilst your dead serfs are neither goods nor chatties of this world. With them
you had no cares, no troubles nor anxieties, and if they have left this wicked
world for a better one, it was by a decree of Providence that you have sustained
a loss in your household. Therefore, and as I have said before, there you
received those twelve roubles for your troubles, whilst I am now offering you
money for a mere nothing, and if you please not twelve roubles but fifteen, and
not in silver, but in three beautiful new imperial bank notes." CHAPTER XVI.
After such strong arguments as those with which we concluded the last chapter,
Tchichikoff could not doubt any longer that the old lady would give way and
consent to his proposal. "Truly," replied the old matron, with an air of
simplicity, "and considering that I am a poor and inexperienced widow, who have
no regular insight into business matters, I think it will be better for me not
to be in a hurry in this bargain; I shall wait a little time, some other
purchaser may come, and, meanwhile I should be able to obtain some information
about the prices." "For shame, for shame, my good lady! It's really a shame.
What are you speaking now, pray consider? Who ever will come upon the idea of
buying your dead serfs? What benefit could possibly be derived from them?" "They
might perhaps be turned to some account in a household--" replied the old woman,
but did not finish her phrase, but looked him into the face as if frightened at
the idea herself, and yet anxious to know what he would say in reply. "Turn the
dead to account in a household! Wherever have you heard of that before? Would
you perhaps use them as guys in your orchards to frighten the sparrows away?"
"The holy powers be with us! What strange language you douse to be sure!"
exclaimed the widow whilst crossing herself. "Where else would you like to put
them? however, I will leave you their skeletons as well as their graves; I only
want you to transfer them to me on paper. Well then, what do you say? Will you
agree? pray give me an answer at least!" The old lady began to reflect again.
"What are you thinking about, Anastasia Petrovna?" "I really do not know what to
decide upon, you had better buy some flax of me." "What am I to do with your
flax? I am really surprised at you; I speak to you of quite a different matter,
and you want to stuff me with flax! Everything in proper time, I will call at
some other time, and then I shall have no objection to deal with you for your
flax. Now, then, Anastasia Petrovna, how is it to be?" "By my saints, the goods
you want, are so very strange, so very unusual!" Here Tchichikoff outstepped the
bounds of patience, and rising from his chair, he upset it in his fury, and
wished the old woman to the devil. At the name of the devil, the old woman
became unusually alarmed. "Oh, pray do not mention him! the Lord preserve us!"
she exclaimed, whilst trembling violently with a pale face. "It is only three
nights ago since I dreamt of the evil one all night long. I happened to come
upon the idea of wishing to tell my own fortune by a pack of cards, just shortly
after I had said my evening prayers, and it seems that the Lord has sent him out
against me to punish me for my wickedness. Oh, he was so frightfully ugly; and
his horns seemed by far larger than those of my oxen." "I am only surprised that
you don't dream of them by scores. Prompted by a feeling of Christian humanity,
I intended, on seeing a poor and lonely widow striving against difficulties--no,
I will not do it now, and may what will become of you and of your whole
village!" "Oh, how you do swear, to be sure!" said the widow, whilst looking
terrified. "But it is quite impossible to keep my temper with you. Without
wishing to give you offence, I cannot help quoting an old proverb, and compare
you to a farm-yard animal,--the species of which, out of respect for you, I will
forbear mentioning--lying on a hay-stack, not eating itself, and preventing
others from doing so. I should have liked to purchase even some of your
household produce, because I am in the habit of contracting also for imperial
supplies." In saying this he slightly imposed upon the old lady; however, it
seemed to slip quite accidentally from his tongue, without any premeditation; it
served, however, to further his views, quite unexpectedly. Contractors for the
supply of the imperial army, the sense which these words conveyed, had a very
strong effect upon the nervous system of Anastasia Petrovna, at least, it made
her articulate the following words in almost a nearly supplicating voice:

"But, my good Sir, what is the cause of your great anger and impatience? If I
had known beforehand that you were a gentleman of such a hot temper, I would, of
course, not have given you the slightest provocation." "I too have a reason to
be angry with you? Bah, you are mistaken, the thing is not worth an egg-shell,
and wherefore should I lose my good temper?" "Very well, then, my good Sir, I am
ready to let you have them for fifteen roubles, in bank notes; but pray remember
me in your contracts of supply; if you should want to purchase some rye-flour,
oatmeal, or some wheat, and some cattle, then please do not forget to treat me
as a friend." "I shall not take any advantage over you, my worthy woman," said
Tchichikoff; meanwhile he used his hand to wipe away the perspiration from his
forehead, which was running down his face in three large streams. He inquired of
her, if she had perchance, an agent in town, or a friend whom she could intrust
with the signature of the contract of sale in her name, and any other
authorization that might be deemed necessary in the completion of the document.
"To be sure I have, the proto-pope's father, Kirilla's son, serves in the very
government office in which you will have to sign the papers," answered the
widow. Tchichikoff asked her to address him a letter of authorization, and in
order to avoid her any further trouble, offered to compose and write it out for
her. "It would be a good thing," thought Lady Korobotchka, "if he would contract
for some of my grains and cattle, I must try to please him now: let me see? yes,
there is some of yesterday's paste still left. I'll go and tell Fetinia to make
him some pancakes; it would be also a good idea to bake him a sweet cake stuffed
with eggs, I know they bake it well in my house, and besides it will take but
little time and trouble." The good old lady left the room with the intention of
carrying out her hospitable projects about the sweet egg cakes, to which no
doubt she meant to make the addition of a few more of the eatables that are
generally stored up in the household of Russian families living in the country.
Tchichikoff made use of this opportunity, and entered the reception-room in
which he had passed the night, with the intention of taking the necessary
writing materials from his dressing-case. The reception-room was already swept,
and in good order, the luxurious feather-bed had been removed, a table was
placed before the sofa, and covered with a white cloth. After depositing his
dressing-case upon the table, Tchichikoff sat down to rest himself a little,
because he felt himself as wet from perspiration as if he had been plunged into
the river; every article of his dress, beginning from the shirt down to his
stockings, was ringing wet. "Ough! how mercilessly the old tiger cat has treated
me to be sure!" said he, after taking breath again, and opening his dressing-
case. The author is of opinion, that there are a great many readers, who are
sufficiently inquisitive to wish to know something more about the construction
of the inner compartments of this dressing-case, made in the French style by
some Russian mechanic. If we are right, why should we not gratify them? Here
then is the interior arrangements: in the centre, you may imagine you behold the
shaving apparatus, such as brushes and soap box, next to them, six or seven
partitions for razors; then on either side, a square opening for ink and sand-
stands, with a hollow or curved shelf for pens, pencils, sealing wax, and all
such things of longitude; then again a few more partitions, with and without
covers, for such articles as are of a shorter kind, and they were filled with
visiting cards, invitations to christenings and funerals, playbills, and a
variety of other small articles, which he secured to keep as souvenirs. All this
upper division, with its various compartments could be taken out, and you would
have seen a space occupied by heaps of writing paper of all sizes, then followed
a small but hidden box of money, which was opened by a secret spring fixed in
the side of the case. He always had the habit of opening this money-safe so
hurriedly, that it was quite impossible to see how much money he carried about
with him when travelling. After having produced the necessary material,
Tchichikoff arranged his pen and began to write. At that moment Lady Korobotchka
entered the room. "What a pretty dressing-case you have, my good Sir," said the
widow to him, whilst sitting down close to him. "No doubt you bought that pretty
box in Moscow?" "Yes, my lady, in Moscow," answered Tchichikoff, continuing to
write. "Thought as much; for everything is well made there. About three years
ago, my sister bought some warm shoes for her children, and they were so well
made, that they have lasted them even till now; the material is excellent in
Moscow! Oh, ye saints, what a collection of stamped papers you have there!" she
continued, whilst casting a look into his dressing-case. And she was right, he
had a large quantity of stamped paper. "I wish you would make me a present, if
but of a sheet! I am quite out of it for the present; it might happen that I
shall have to write a petition, and have no suitable paper." Tchichikoff
explained to her that the paper was not of that description, that it could only
be used for the purpose of drawing up contracts of sale, but not petitions.
However, in order to quiet as well as to please her, he presented her with an
old sheet of trifling value. When he had written the letter he requested her to
sign it, and demanded at the same time a list of the names of those of her dead
serfs, as he was shortly about to consider as his property. It appeared,
however, that Lady Korobotchka was not in the habit of keeping any accounts or
lists, but could remember the name of everyone by heart; Tchichikoff was,
therefore, obliged to note them down as she dictated their names in due
rotation. The names of a few of his future dependants did puzzle him
considerably, but much more so their surnames, which seemed to have been given
to them by their lawful mistress as distinguishing marks of their various
professions. After having taken down their names with the different items,
Tchichikoff stopped to take breath, and inhaled a savoury perfume, like that of
melted butter. "Will you please to come and take a little luncheon now?" said
his amiable hostess. Tchichikoff looked round, and saw the table covered with a
variety of good things, such as mushrooms, fish, pies, muffins, pancakes, to
which there was a variety of sweet and fat sauces, sauces mixed with sweet
onions, sauces mixed with poppy-seed, cream and butter sauces, sprat and other
small fish sauces. "Pray taste this pie with egg and meat stuffing, first," said
Lady Korobotchka. Tchichikoff seated himself at once to the strongly-recommended
pie with egg and meat stuffing, and after having eaten nearly the half of it, he
began to praise it very much. And indeed, the pie was really very excellently
prepared, and considering the bother he had to come to an understanding with the
old lady, it seemed particularly delicious. "And now some pancakes or muffins,
if you please?" said she again. In reply to this, Tchichikoff rolled up three
pancakes at once, and after dipping them in the melted butter, he dispatched
them into his mouth, and wiped his greasy lips and hands upon the clean napkin.
After repeating this operation twice or three times, he begged his hostess to
order his horses to be put to his britchka. Anastasia Petrovna immediately
called her servant Fetinia, gave her the necessary instructions, and ordered her
at the same time to bring a fresh supply of hot pancakes. "Your pancakes are
delicious, indeed," said Tchichikoff, whilst helping himself freely to some more
of the hot ones that were put before him. "Yes, they bake them well at my
house," replied his hostess; "it is only a pity that we have such bad harvests,
which makes the flour so very dear. But why do you hurry yourself so much, my
dear Sir?" she said to Tchichikoff, when she saw him take up his travelling-cap,
"your carriage cannot yet be ready and waiting?" "That will soon be done, my
good lady. I keep my coachman always alive to his duty." "Well, then, pray do
not forget me in your contracts for the imperial supplies." "I shall not forget
you, my excellent lady, I shall not forget you," repeated Tchichikoff, whilst
walking out of the house. "Do you by chance buy pig's grease?" inquired the
widow, whilst following him from behind. "Why should I not buy some? of course I
do, but that will be at some other time." "I shall have some pig's grease to
offer to you at Christmas." "I will buy some of you, I will, indeed, I am ready
to buy anything of you later, even pig's grease." "You may, perhaps, also like
to buy some birds' feathers of all descriptions of me. I shall have a quantity
at Michaelmas next." "Very well, very well, my good lady," answered Tchichikoff.
"There, you see, my good Sir, your britchka is not yet ready," said his hostess,
when they had arrived upon, the door-step. "Oh, never mind, it will soon be
ready. Pray tell me only how we shall have to drive to come upon the high road?"
"How should I explain that to you? Let me see," said the old lady after a
moment's reflection; "it is rather difficult to describe because there are so
many turnings; perhaps I had better give you a little girl to show you the road.
I dare say you will have a small seat for her to sit upon on your carriage?"
"Yes, to be sure I have." "Very well, then, I will intrust you with one of my
little girls; she knows the road well enough, but look you here! do not decoy
her, for some of the merchants have already carried one of my girls off."
Tchichikoff promised her that he would not kidnap the girl, and Lady
Korobotchka, tranquillized by his assurance, began now to look around her in the
court-yard of the house; she fixed her eyes, first upon the housekeeper, who was
carrying across the court a large vessel with honey, and then upon a peasant who
made his appearance at the gates, and by degrees the old lady was soon
completely devoted to her household concerns. "Ah, here is my britchka at last,"
exclaimed Tchichikoff, as he saw his carriage driving up. "Well, you idiot, what
the deuce has kept you so long? It seems the fumes of yesterday have not yet
quite evaporated." Selifan made no reply to this observation. "Farewell, my
excellent lady! But stop, where is your little girl?" "Come here, Pelagey," said
the widow addressing herself to a little girl of about eleven years, who was
standing close by, dressed in a home-woven woollen frock, and with bare feet,
which, at a distance might have been mistaken for boots, so much they were
besmeared with fresh mud. "Go with this gentleman, and lead him upon the high
road." Selifan assisted her to get upon his seat, in doing this she put one of
her dirty feet upon the carriage steps, and after leaving a mark behind, she at
last took her seat next to Selifan. After he had seen her safely seated,
Tchichikoff in his turn put his foot upon his carriage steps, and after making
it visibly incline on the right hand side--because he was rather weighty--he at
last took his seat comfortably, and said: "Oh! now I am all right! farewell, my
good lady!" The horses moved on, and the carriage left the court-yard. Selifan
was sulky during the whole journey, but at the same time very careful and
attentive in the observance of his duty as a driver, which always happened when
he had been negligent or drunk. His horses were exceeding clean, as well as
their harness and the britchka. The horse collar of one of the three horses,
which was usually put on its neck in so dilapidated a state, that the hemp was
visible under the leather, was now cleverly sewn up. During the whole time he
continued to be speechless, and now and then only lifted his whip, but without
addressing any lecture to his tiger-spotted idler, who stood as much as ever in
want of a correction; however, the usually talkative driver, held his reins
loosely in his hand, and used the whip only occasionally, and then only passed
it across their backs as a matter of form. Yet from his sulkily-compressed lips
were heard at intervals monosyllables of an ill-tempered meaning, such as, "Now
then, now, you raven! take care! speed on!" but nothing else. Even the other
side horse, as well as the leader seemed to feel some discontent, when they
heard nothing of that to which they had been accustomed: either words of reproof
or approbation. The tiger-spotted idler seemed rather disgusted, because he felt
the most unpleasant touches tickling his fat sides. "Now then, now then, what
the deuce is the matter with him! he is harder at me than ever!" thought the
idler to himself, whilst pointing his ears. "He knows where to hit, and no
mistake! He won't beat me in a straight-forward manner upon the back, but picks
and chooses the most sensible parts, he hits my ears, and keeps annoying my
flanks." "Is it to the right?" was the dry question which Selifan addressed to
the little girl sitting next to him, whilst pointing with his whip towards a
dark road, looming in the distance among some verdoyant com fields. "No, no, I
will show you where," answered the little girl. "Where is it?" demanded Selifan,
after having driven for some distance. "That is the road," replied the child,
whilst pointing with her hand. "Eh, you little stupid!" said Selifan; "that is
to the right; she does not even know what right and left means." Although the
day was fair, the road was wet and heavy, and so muddy, that the wheels of the
britchka were soon thickly covered with it, which considerably increased the
weight of the carriage; besides, the soil was of a dayish nature and exceedingly
sticky. This was the chief cause that they could not reach the high road before
mid-day. Without the assistance of the little girl, they would not have been
able to progress so fast, because the narrow paths and turnings were
innumerable, and led in all directions, like captured lobsters when thrown out
of a bag, and Selifan, if alone, might have driven heaven knows where. Soon
after, the little girl pointed to some building at a distance and said, "There
is the high road!" "And what are those buildings?" inquired Selifan. "That is an
inn," answered the child. "Now we shall be able to find the road ourselves,"
said Selifan, "you can be off home again." He stopped his horses, and helped her
to get down from his seat, murmuring through his teeth, "Eh, you little black-
leg!" Tchichikoff gave her some coppers, the value of about a penny, and she
soon disappeared in one of the next turnings. The poor little child seemed
overjoyed, not so much about the trifle which she had received, as from the
pleasure she had enjoyed in sitting and riding in such a beautiful carriage,
drawn by such handsome horses. CHAPTER XVI. On arriving at the inn, Tchichikoff
ordered his coachman to halt, mainly for too reasons; on the one hand, he wished
that his jaded horses should have a little rest, and on the other, that he
himself should have something to eat, and recruit his exhausted strength. The
author must confess that he very much envies the appetite and the stomach of
such men as his hero. He entertains the greatest indifference for all those
gentlemen of the _haut ton_, who inhabit either St. Petersburgh or Moscow, and
who waste their time in anxiously thinking about what they would like to eat to-
morrow, and what dinner they could imagine for the day after, and preparing
themselves for that dinner by undergoing the operation of swallowing a pill on
the evening previous; who gulp down oysters and devour lobsters, together with a
variety of other marine and land curiosities, and end by going on a journey for
health, either to Baden Baden, or the Caucasus. No, these gentlemen have never
had the good fortune to excite my envy; but our men of the middle rank, who at
one inn ask for cold ham, at another for roast pork, and at a third for a tail,
or a head of a sturgeon, or a lump of smoked sausage with onions in it, and
then, without any further ceremony, at any hour of the day sit down to table and
eat and drink heartily, such men indeed enjoy the enviable blessings of heaven,
a sound stomach and a good appetite. I remember many a gentleman belonging to,
what we term in Russia, the _haut ton_, who would have gladly parted with the
half of his numerous serfs, and the half of his mortgaged and non-mortgaged
fortune, with all its foreign and domestic improvements, on one condition,
namely: that he should receive in return, such a stomach and appetite as the
gentlemen of the middle rank possesses; but what a pity that no monetary
sacrifices, nor the gift of their estates with or without foreign improvements
will ever obtain them in return such a stomach as the gentleman of the less
exalted position can boast of. The inn which received Tchichikoff under its
hospitable wooden roof, had an entrance verandah which rested upon four pillars,
resembling some old-fashioned church chandeliers; the aspect of the whole, was a
dark, smoky-looking structure, altogether, not unlike the miserable huts of the
peasantry, only in larger dimensions; the fresh workmanship of the carved
cornices which ornamented the windows, and the large entrance door, formed a
striking contrast with the dark walls of the gloomy house, upon the shutters of
which a variety of flower-pots were painted upon, what was once, a sky-blue
ground. After ascending a narrow, dark and inconvenient staircase, Tchichikoff
arrived at a spacious landing, where he opened a creaking door, and was
encountered by an enormously stout old woman dressed in a yellow and flame
coloured print dress, who officiously addressed the stranger with: "step in here
if you please!" In this room his eye fell upon familiar objects, such as are to
be met with at every small country inn, of which there are again uncountable
numbers on the high roads of Russia. Among these familiar objects we may
mention, an immense hooped samovar, smoothly plained fir walls, a three legged,
but large cupboard, covered with an array of tea-pots, cups and saucers standing
in a corner, neatly painted china easter eggs, hanging before the images of the
saints suspended by pink and blue ribbons, a large favourite cat with her new
born offspring, a looking glass, which instead of reflecting two eyes showed the
curious party to be in possession of four, and instead of a face something not
unlike a muffin, and finally numerous small bundles of fine herbs, which had
been hung up to dry close by the lamps burning before the images. Any one on
approaching these simples, and inhaling their perfumes could not have resisted a
sneeze in consequence. "Have you a little bit of sucking pig?" such was the
question with which Tchichikoff addressed himself to the fat old woman. "I have
some, your glory!" was the short reply. "With cream and horse-raddish?" "Yes,
your glory! prepared with cream and horse-raddish." "Let me have it then!" The
landlady hurried off, and soon returned again with a plate and a napkin so
unmercifully stiffened, that it crackled like dried bark; she produced a knife
with a bone handle, which from age and use had become of a very dark yellow
colour, its blade was as thin as a pen-knife, a fork with two prongs only, and
lastly a salt box, which it was impossible for her to make stand upright upon
the table. Our hero, begun immediately, as was his habit, to enter into
conversation with the hostess, and inquired with apparent solicitude, if she
kept the hotel herself, or whether it was her husband who did so; how large the
income was, and whether her sons lived with her in the house; whether the eldest
was a single, or married man, and what sort of wife he had got, whether she
brought a large, or a small marriage portion into the family; and if the father-
in-law was satisfied, or displeased that he received but trifling presents at
the wedding, in a word, he omitted no question that could possibly have been
put. From these and similar inquiries, it will be obvious that he was also
anxious to know what sort of landowners lived in her neighbourhood, and he was
consequently informed that there existed in the vicinity a great variety of
landed proprietors, for instance: the Blochins, the Potchitaeffs, the Milnoffs,
Tcheprakoff, a Colonel in the army, Sobakevitch. "Ah! you know Mr. Sobakevitch?"
Tchichikoff demanded, interrupting her, and he was informed that the old woman
knew, not only Sobakevitch, but also Mr. Maniloff, and that Maniloff was, in her
opinion, more of a gentleman than Sobakevitch; that the former, when putting up
at her inn, would always order a roast chicken, or demand some cold veal; and if
she had any sheep's liver, he would even ask for that, and yet scarcely touch
anything; whilst Sobakevitch was accustomed to ask for only one dish, but sit
down to it, and eat it all, and even ask an addition of the same, and for the
same price. When he had thus questioned and conversed with the old landlady,
whilst continuing to eat his sucking pig, of which there remained but one small
piece more, the noise of carriage wheels arriving at the inn was heard. He rose
and looked out of the window, and beheld a light britchka drawn by a troika,
three beautiful and well-fed horses, pulled up before the inn. Two gentlemen
alighted from this carriage. The one was fair and of high stature; the other
less tall and of dark complexion. The fair man was dressed in a dark cloth
paletot; the other wore a simple Turkish morning coat, commonly called an
archaluck. At a distance, a second miserable looking empty vehicle, drawn by
four long-haired and poor looking horses, followed the first, the harness was in
a wretched condition, and the horses' collars were tattered, and tied up with
strings. The fair complexioned gentleman immediately entered the house and
walked up-stairs; whilst his darker companion remained below, seeking for
something in his britchka, and speaking to the servant. At the same time he made
signs with his hand to the driver of the other vehicle, which was now gradually
approaching. The voice of the speaker below seemed familiar to Tchichikoff, and
whilst he was frying to recognise him, the fair man had had already time to find
the door, and entered the room. He was a man of tall stature, with careworn or
rather jaded features, and wore a pair of small Scotch-coloured moustachios.
From his pallid complexion it could easily be perceived that if he had not
smelled much gunpowder, he must have been perfectly familiar with the smoke of
tobacco. He bowed civilly to Tchichikoff, which the other returned as civilly.
In the course of a few minutes they would have infallibly spoken, and have
become well acquainted one with other, because the commencement was already
made, and they would have expressed at the same time, with mutual satisfaction,
that the dust on the high road had been completely laid by the heavy rain of the
preceding night, and that it was now cool and pleasant travelling, but at that
moment the dark-complexioned traveller entered the room, threw his cap upon the
table, and passed his hand through his rich black hair. He was a man of the
middle stature, well made, and of gentlemanly appearance, with a highly healthy-
coloured complexion, with teeth as white as snow, and a pair of whiskers as
black as ebony. He was fresh as milk and blood can possibly be; health seemed to
gleam out of every one of his features. "Bah! bah! bah!" he exclaimed suddenly,
and opening his arms as he beheld Tchichikoff, "What good fortune." Tchichikoff
recognized in the speaker, Mr. Nosdrieff, the same gentleman with whom he had
the pleasure of dining at the Procurator's house, and who in a very brief time
indeed had placed himself on such a familiar footing with our hero, that he had
called him several times _thou_, which is, by the bye, not unusual in Russia,
though it would shock the ear of an Englishman. However, Tchichikoff on his
side, had given no provocation to this familiarity. "Where have you been?" said
Nosdrieff; but without awaiting a reply, he continued: "My dear fellow, I have
just returned from a fair. Congratulate me! I have nearly ruined myself by
gambling. Would you believe it, I never lost so much in my life before? And the
result is, that I have been obliged to travel with common post-horses. Just look
through the window, and convince yourself, my dear fellow!" Here he with his
hand turned Tchichikoff's head towards the window, and nearly made him hit
himself against the framework. "Do you see what miserable looking wretches they
are? I can assure you they had every difficulty in dragging themselves along the
road, and I was therefore obliged to get into that fellow's britchka." With this
polite remark, he pointed with his finger towards his travelling companion. "Are
you not yet acquainted? My brother-in-law, Mr. Muschnieff. I have been speaking
to him of you, my dear Tchichikoff all the morning. I told him, mind, we are
sure to meet that delightful gentleman, Pavel Ivanovitch. But, my dear fellow,
if you could only imagine how much I have lost by gambling! Would you believe
it, I lost not only four of my finest race-horses, but also a considerable
amount in bank-notes--all gone I Now I have neither my watch nor chain."
Tchichikoff looked at him, and really found it was as he said, he had neither
his watch nor his chain. It even seemed to him as if one of his whiskers was
less frill than the other. "And if I had had but twenty roubles more in my
pocket at the time," continued Nosdrieff, "but the trifling sum of a twenty-
rouble note, I should have won back again, all, no, not merely all, but I am
sure, that at this moment I should have had thirty or forty thousand roubles
more in my pocket-book, this I can affirm, upon my word, as a gentleman!" "Now
then, softly, you said the same then and there," said the fair man, "and when I
gave you a fifty-rouble note, you lost it in no time." "I should not have lost
it; by Heaven, I should not have lost it, without a mistake of my own, I could
not have lost it. If I had only doubled my stake after the parole, I should have
ruined the croupier." "However, you did nothing of the kind," added his brother-
in-law. "Certainly not, because as I told you, I bent my corners too rashly. And
you think, perhaps, that the major plays well?" "I don't care how he plays, but
the fact is, that he has won your money." "Never mind with his infernal good
luck, I could play as well. But let him come and try his chance with me at any
other game, and you will soon be able to see how I shall treat him. I must
confess this fair was one of the finest I have been at for some time. The
tradesmen themselves agree that they never saw so many people in their town, and
that seldom have they known such a run of business. "All that I sent to the
market, from my estate, has been sold at the most advantageous prices. I
sincerely regret, that you, my dear fellow, were not with us. Imagine only,
about three wersts from town, a regiment of dragoons was lying in their
barracks. All the officers of that regiment and a few more from other places, in
all, about forty men besides myself; we were always together, but when we sat
down to drink--then it was, my dear fellow, that I should have liked to see you
among us. "What a nice fellow that Stabz-CapitÃ¤n Pozelueff is!" Nosdrieff ran
on. "We were always together. We had some excellent wine supplied to us by the
celebrated merchant Ponomareff! But, by the bye, I must tell you, he is a great
scoundrel, and you ought not to buy anything in his shop; he has the habit of
mixing with his wines, heaven knows what stuff, he put in some sandal-wood, bad
spirits, and even some of that raw Kahetian wine of the Caucasus, the rascal!
but then I must confess, whenever he produces a bottle of what he calls extra
fine, and which he usually keeps in a secret place, then you may depend on
tasting something palateable, and fancy yourself in paradise. The champagne we
had at his house was so delicious, that that with which the Lord Lieutenant
treated us to the other day, was as bad as a bottle of stale ginger-beer
compared with it. Only fancy, it was not Cliquot. He also produced from his
usual hiding store an extra bottle of claret, which he called bonbon. Its
flavour was that of a rose, or a whole bouquet if you like. Oh, we had such a
spree with that fellow! and a prince, who happened to arrive after us demanded
some champagne, and could not get any in the whole town, for we, I mean the
officers and I, had drunk every bottle of it. Would you believe it, my dear
fellow, that I for my own account drank seventeen bottles of champagne during
our dinner! "Now then, I am sure you could not have drunk seventeen bottles all
by yourself," his brother-in-law interrupted him. "On the faith of a gentleman,
I did as I said, I drank them all," answered Nosdrieff. "You may say what you
like, but I tell you, that you could not even empty ten bottles of champagne."
"Very well then, will you lay a wager to that effect?" "Why should I bet with
you about it?" "Now then, come, stake your new rifle, which you bought at the
fair." "No, I won't." "Just lay me a wager about it!" "I won't even try." "It's
well you won't try, else you would remain without your rifle as you now are
without your cap. Oh, my dear fellow Tchichikoff, you can have no idea how much
I regret that you were not with us! I know you could never have parted with my
friend Lieutenant Kuvschinikoff, I am sure you would have soon become intimate.
He is not such a man as our Procurator, or all the other niggards of our
province, who tremble at each copek they spend. That fellow spends his fortune
like a prince, and is ready to play any game. Ah, my dear Tchichikoff, why did
you not come to the fair. Really you are a humbug! pardon my saying it, but I
could not help it, allow me to embrace you, my dear fellow, because I like you
amazingly!" and he embraced Tchichikoff, only to go on as follows. "Muschnieff,
my dear fellow, just look at us, here we are both, Providence brought us
together; what is he to me and what am I to him? But my dear fellow, you have no
idea, how many carriages there were at every evening party, all _en gros_. I
joined a lottery and won two pots of pomatum, a china tea-cup and saucer, and a
guitar; but I played later again and lost all, and six silver roubles besides.
"Yes, my dear fellow, we have been at some of the most delicious evening
parties. I also made some purchases at the fair, fortunately I did so, whilst I
had yet some money in my pockets. But by the bye, where are you driving to?" "I
am on the road to a gentleman's house in the neighbourhood," answered
Tchichikoff. "Cut him, my dear fellow! and come with me!" "Thank you, but I
cannot accept your invitation, I have some business." "Bah, what business can
you have! you only pretend that, oh, you sly old father Opodildoc Ivanovitch!"
"Really, I have some business to attend to of a very important nature too." "I
lay a wager, you are telling me a fib! now tell me at least where are you going
to?" "I have no objection to tell you that I am going to visit Sobakevitch."
Here Nosdrieff burst into a fit of laughter, with such a ringing voice as a man
of perfect health only can enjoy, and at the same time displayed a range of
teeth as white as sugar to the last; his cheeks became flushed and trembling,
and the effect of his loud outburst could have caused a neighbour in a third
room, separated by two doors, to startle from his slumbers, and exclaim: "What
the deuce is the matter with that fellow?" "What do you find so laughable in
that," demanded Tchichikoff, partly vexed at the loud outburst. But Nosdrieff
continued to laugh as loudly as before, adding: "pray have mercy, or else I
shall burst from laughing!" "There is nothing laughable in that, I should think;
besides I gave him a promise that I would come and visit him," said Tchichikoff.
"But, my dear fellow, allow me to assure you that you will be disgusted with
your own existence, if you go to see him, he is a regular Jew killer! and I know
your disposition; you are too hasty in your judgment, if you hope to meet there
any playmen, or a bottle of good bonbon claret. Listen, my dear fellow! send
Sobakevitch to the deuce, and come with me! I promise to give you a famous
treat! I have some excellent wine from that scoundrel Ponomareff, who was
immensely civil to me, and assured me that I should not be able to get any thing
nearly so good as his claret and champagne, were I to search for it throughout
the town and fair; for all that I believe him to be a great rogue, and that he
has taken me in most unmercifully. I told him as much, and added besides; you
and all the public contractors are, in my opinion, the greatest rogues on earth!
At all this, my dear fellow, he used to laugh whilst stroking his carroty beard.
"But, my dear fellow, I nearly forgot to tell you; I know now you will not be
able to refuse me your admiration, I am going to show you something, which I
tell you beforehand, I won't part with, were you even to offer me ten thousand
roubles on the spot. "Halloa, Porphir," he shouted whilst approaching the
window, and addressing his servant by this name, who was below, holding a knife
and a crust of bread in one hand, and a piece of smoked sturgeon in the other,
which piece he had contrived cleverly to cut off whilst fumbling about in his
master's carriage. "Halloa, Porphir," shouted Nosdrieff again, "bring me that
little dog out of the carriage! You shall see, my dear fellow, what a beautiful
dog that is," he said, while turning himself again towards Tchichikoff. "It is
like a stolen dog, the owner would have rather liked to part with himself than
with that dog. I gave him that wretched mare, which as you know, I took in
exchange from Captain Hvostireff." Tchichikoff, however, had never in his life
known, or seen either the wretched mare, or the Captain Hvostireff. "Would your
glory like to take any thing?" asked the landlady civilly. "Nothing. Oh, my dear
fellow, what fun we had to be sure! However, old woman, let me have a small
glass of something. What have you got?" "Some anisette, if your glory wishes."
"Very well, let me have some anisette," said Nosdrieff. "Give me a small glass
as well!" said his fair brother-in-law. "At the theatre, I heard an actress sing
like a canary-bird; the lieutenant who sat next to me whispered his favorite
motto into my ear, and said: 'this young bird would be an excellent subject for
a favourable opportunity!' I fancy there were at least fifty large booths upon
the Market Place. And Fenardi spun a windmill, at least four hours at a time."
Here he took a small glass of liqueur from the hands of the landlady, who bowed
very low at the moment. "Ah, give him here!" he exclaimed, as he beheld Porphir
entering the room with a small dog in his hands. Porphir was, as nearly as
possible, dressed like his master, namely, he wore a similar Turkish morning
coat, with the only difference, that it looked greasy. "Bring him here--put him
on the floor!" Porphir deposited the little dog upon the floor, who stretched
out his fore paws and began to smell the ground. "Here is the dog," said
Nosdrieff, laying hold of his skin and holding him up in his hand. The young dog
howled forth a rather plaintive tune. "But you have not done what I told you,"
said Nosdrieff, turning towards Porphir, whilst minutely examining the dog's
stomach; "it seems you have neglected to clean him?" "Pardon me, Sir, I have
combed him." "Where then do those fleas come from?" "I can't say, your glory.
They must have got upon him somehow whilst he was lying in the carriage."
"Nonsense, stuff, you idle fellow, you appear to have forgotten to do as I told
you, and have given him some of your own jumpers besides. Look here, my dear
Tchichikoff, just examine his ears, now just feel them with your own hand."
"Never mind, I can see without feeling: he is of a good breed," answered
Tchichikoff. "Nay, oblige me, only just feel his ears!" Tchichikoff, in order to
oblige him, complied with the request, and felt the ears of the young dog, and
then added: "yes, it will be a fine dog." "And his nose, can you feel how cold
it is? just try it with your hand." Tchichikoff not wishing to offend him, even
felt the dog's nose, saying: "yes, he seems to have a fine scent." "A thorough-
bred bull-dog," continued Nosdrieff, "and I must confess I longed to have a real
English bull-dog, long ago. Here, Porphir, take him away again." Porphir took
the young bull-dog gently under the stomach, and carried it back again into the
carriage. "I say, Tchichikoff, you must now come as far as my house, it is only
five wersts off, and we shall be there in no time, and later if you like you may
proceed to Sobakevitch's." "And why should I not," thought Tchichikoff to
himself, "I'll really drive as far as Nosdrieff's estate and see what it is
like. He is not worse than anybody else; he is a good a gentleman as any, and
besides, he is a gambler and has lost. To judge by appearances he seems rather
clever, consequently, it might easily happen that I shall easily obtain what I
want." "Very well then," he added aloud, "I will, but on the express condition
that you will not detain me, because my time is precious." "Ah, my soul, that is
right! I am delighted my dear fellow, allow me to embrace you, to kiss you."
Hereupon Nosdrieff and Tchichikoff embraced and kissed one another on the cheek
--as is the custom between intimate friends in Russia. "And we shall all have a
delightful journey home!" "Pray, no, I hope you will excuse me," said his fair
brother-in-law, "I must hasten homewards." "Nonsense, stuff, my dear fellow, I
shall not let you off." "Really, I must, else my wife will be angry with me, and
besides, now you will be able to take a seat in Mr. Tchichikoff's britchka."
"No, no, no, and don't you think of escaping us!" Mushnieff, Nosdrieff's fair-
complexioned brother-in-law, was one of those men whose dominant character
seemed to be a spirit of contradiction. Scarcely has a person had time to open
his mouth, when he will be already to contradict him, it is therefore obvious
that they will never agree upon any point that is in just opposition to their
different and separate opinion, they will therefore never call a foolish man a
wise one, and especially such men would as a matter of course never consent to
dance to another's whistle; but in the end, it will always appear that their
general character is a weak disposition, and that at last they will agree upon
the very thing they originally had been contradicting, namely, they will affirm
the fool to be a wise man, and the next thing they will do, is to go and dance
most heartily after another man's whistle, in a word, they begin roughly and end
smoothly. "Nonsense!" said Nosdrieff, in reply to some observation of his
brother-in-law; he then took his travelling cap, put it on his head and the fair
gentleman followed the two others. "I hope you will excuse me, but your glories
have not paid me for the liqueurs," said the old landlady. "Ah, very well, my
good woman. I say my dear brother-in-law, just pay that old woman will you. I
have not a copek in my pocket," said Nosdrieff. "How much is it?" demanded the
brother-in-law. "A rouble only, may it please your glory," said the hostess.
"Stuff! nonsense!" shouted Nosdrieff, "give her only half-a-rouble; that will be
quite sufficient for the trash." "It's rather little, your honour," said the old
woman; however, she took the money with a curtsey, and hurried to open the door
as fast as her bodily constitution would permit her. She had sustained no loss
in taking what was given to her, because she took care to demand four times the
value of her had spirits. CHAPTER XVIII. The travellers took their seats in
their respective carriages. Tchichikoff's britchka drove in a line with that in
which Nosdrieff was seated with his brother-in-law, and thus they had every
facility for continuing their conversation during their journey to Nosdrieff's
estate. These two carriages were followed at a slight distance behind by
Nosdrieff's dilapidated conveyance. In it were seated his servant Porphir, and
his new acquisition the young bull-dog. As the conversation of the three
travellers could be but of little interest to the reader, we will omit it
altogether, and say a word instead about Nosdrieff, whose fate it will perhaps
be to play an important part in this narrative. Nosdrieff's face we premise to
be already a little familiar to our reader. Men like him could easily be met
with by everybody, who will take the trouble and travel in Russia. They are what
are called men who have cut their eye teeth. Their reputation begins from their
boyhood, when they were much admired by their school-fellows, but for all that
never escaped a sound thrashing occasionally. In their face, there is always
something open, straightforward, if not impudent, to be seen. They soon succeed
in ingratiating themselves, and ere you have had time to recover from your
surprise they call you already "my dear fellow." They seem to establish their
friendly relations for an eternity; but it will always happen that those who
have been imprudent enough to form an intimacy with them, will, on the very
evening of the day, at some friendly supper or rout, fall out with them. They
are always very great talkers, hard drinkers, and what is termed, jolly good
fellows, and with all that, men of prepossessing appearance. Nosdrieff, at
thirty-five years of age, was in all these talents as accomplished as he was
when only eighteen or twenty; exceedingly fond of dissipation. His marriage did
not in the least interfere with his pleasures, nor change him, so much the less,
since his wife, shortly after their marriage; quitted this world for a better
one, leaving behind her two little children, which were of no earthly use or
consolation to him. His infants, however, were properly taken care of by a
housekeeper. He never could stay at home for more than twenty-four hours at a
time. His sense of divination was so acute that he could smell at a distance of
twenty or thirty miles where a fair was to be held, or a ball or rout to be
given. In no time he was sure to be there, lead on a dispute, create a
disturbance at the green table, because he, like other men of his description,
had a passion for gambling. He was fond of card-playing, as we have seen already
in the first chapter; and he did not play without a little cheating, because he
knew so many different tricks and finesses, and for that very reason the game
often ended in another sort of play; he either got a sound thrashing, or his
full and glossy whiskers pulled about so much so, that very often he had to
return home with only one of his hairy ornaments, and that even of a spare
appearance. But the constitution of his full and rosy cheeks was so excellent,
that with an extraordinary fertility of growth, a new pair of whiskers soon made
their appearance again, and even finer and stronger than the former. But the
strangest feature in his character was--and this could perhaps only happen in
Russia--that a very short time after, he could coolly meet again the very same
friends who had but recently horsewhipped him, and meet them as if nothing had
been the matter between them; and as the phrase goes, _he_ said nothing, and
_they_ said nothing about it. Nosdrieff was in some respects also an historical
personage. He never went to an evening party without there being some talk about
him afterwards. Some event or another was sure to take place wherever he went;
he would either be obliged to leave the room under an escort of strangers, or be
forcibly led away by his own friends, who ventured to introduce him. If either
of these cases did not happen, it might be depended upon that something else was
sure to occur and make him notorious, and which to any other person would not
happen under any circumstances; he would either get tipsy to such a degree as to
do nothing else but laugh continually, or commit himself to such a degree that
at last he will begin to blush at them himself. Strange to say, he would try to
impose upon persons without the least advantage to himself: he would of a sudden
protest, that once he possessed a horse or a dog of a green or a blue colour,
and such and similar nonsense; so that those who have been listening to him,
will leave him and say, "what falsehoods that man is telling, to be sure!" There
are people, who have a passion for injuring their fellow-men frequently without
any provocation. Some of us Russians, for an example, men of rank, of
prepossessing appearance and with large decorations on their breasts, will often
give you unquestionable assurances of friendship whilst pressing your hand
warmly, speak to you about scientific things, which require deep study--and
then, the very next moment, and in your presence, they will go and play you some
base trick. And they will injure you as meanly as a man of the fifteenth degree
of the Russian nobility--which by the bye is the lowest, though this was not at
all what you could have expected from a man wearing a star or two on his breast,
discussing scientific things which require deep study and serious meditation. So
great will your surprise be at his conduct, that you will remain abashed, shrug
your shoulders, and say nothing. Nosdrieff had exactly such a passion, whoever
was the more acquainted or befriended by him, was sure to be the chosen victim
of this despicable passion of his; he launched some of his monstrous nonsense,
anything more stupid could scarcely be imagined, yet he succeeded either in
breaking off some promise of marriage or some contract of sale, and what not;
and in doing all that, he never called himself your enemy; on the contrary, if
fate would have it, that you should meet him again, he would accost you like an
old friend, and even say, "halloah! here you are at last, but you are not my
dear fellow, because you never come to see me." Nosdrieff was in many respects
also a multifarious man, to use a common phrase, we may call him, a man up to
anything and everything. At the same instant he would propose to you, to go and
drive wherever you like, If even to the end of the world, or in search of Sir
John Franklin, then again he would be ready to enter into any speculation with
you, exchange with you everything that could possibly be exchanged,--a rifle, a
dog, a horse, not that he had any object of gain in it, not at all, it was
simply another trait of his restless and foolish character. If fate would have
it so, that he might meet an inexperienced player or a flat at any of the towns
or fairs which he used to visit, and that he should win of him his money in a
gambling match, he would buy all and everything that would be first brought
under his notice or be offered to him; he then purchased indiscriminately,
horse-collars, perfumes, and neckerchiefs for the nurse of his children, a
stallion, grapes, a silver mouth bason, Irish linen, buckwheat flour, tobacco,
holster-pistols, Dutch herrings, oil paintings, mechanical instruments, pots and
saucepans, boots, china tea-services--in fact, as long as his money lasted, he
would continue his purchases. However, it was a rare occurrence when any of this
great variety of articles were ever sent to his home; it happened nearly
invariably that all these goods passed the very day of their purchase into the
hands of some more fortunate gambler, very frequently even he would have to make
the addition of his favourite Turkish pipe, with its amber mouth-piece and other
ornaments, and he had even known extreme cases, when he had to part with his
carriage, horses, and coachman, so that he, the master, was left behind,
possessing for the time being nothing he could call his own but his clothes,
running about to find some friend to give him a place in his carriage and drive
him home--and this seems very much to have been the case with him in this
instance, when he met with Tchichikoff at the inn. Meanwhile, the three
carriages had arrived before the gates of Nosdrieff's house. In the house there
had been no preparations made for their reception. In the centre of the dining
room there was a scaffolding on which two mouzhiks were standing, and
whitewashing the wall and ceiling, whilst singing the tune of some interminable
song. Nosdrieff immediately gave orders that the workmen as well as the
scaffoldings should quit the room, and hastened into an adjoining apartment to
give the necessary instructions to that effect. His guests heard Him give his
commands for the preparation of a dinner to his cook; when this was audibly
heard by Tchichikoff, he began to feel an appetite, as well as the conviction
that they should not be able to sit to table before five o'clock. Nosdrieff,
after returning to his guests offered to show them all and everything on his
estate, and in his village; and, in little more than two hours he had positively
shown them everything worth seeing, so that there remained nothing else to be
looked at. First of all they went to examine his stables, where they saw two
mares, the one a grey silver-coloured animal, the other a chesnut one, then a
black stallion, not a showy looking horse at all, but for which Nosdrieff swore
that he had paid ten thousand roubles. "You could never have paid ten thousand
roubles for that animal," his brother-in-law observed coolly. "It is not worth
even a thousand." "By Heaven, I gave ten thousand for him," said Nosdrieff. "You
may invoke Heaven as a witness as much as you like, I don't care," his fair-
complexioned brother-in-law persisted. "Very well then, let us have a wager
about it," exclaimed Nosdrieff. But his brother-in-law did not like to lay him a
wager. Nosdrieff then showed them some empty stalls, in which he used to keep
excellent race-horses formerly. In the same stable they also saw a goat, who,
according to a proverbial faith, was deemed indispensable in a stable near the
horses, and it seemed that this goat was on excellent terms with his fellow-
animals, for it walked about under their stomachs as if quite at home. After
this, Nosdrieff led them away, showed them a young wolf, whom he kept tied to a
pole. "Here is a whelp," said he, "I feed him purposely with raw meat. I want to
bring him up to become a perfect wild beast." They then went to look at a pond,
in which, according to Nosdrieff, there were such enormously large fish, that
two men would have every difficulty in pulling out one of them. In this,
however, his brother seemed not inclined to contradict him. "Tchichikoff, my
dear fellow, come along, I'll show you a pair of beautiful dogs," said
Nosdrieff, whilst leading on; "their muscular strength will amaze you, their
power of scent is as sharp as--a needle!" "Just look at that plain," said
Nosdrieff, whilst pointing with his finger to a field before them, "there is
such a number of hares that you can scarcely see the ground; I caught one the
other day with my own hands by his hind legs." "I venture to say, that you will
never catch a hare with your hands!" observed his brother-in-law. "But I tell
you I caught one, and caught one purposely with my own hands!" answered
Nosdrieff. "But now come along and I will show you, my dear fellow," he
continued whilst turning towards Tchichikoff, "the frontier line of my estate."
When they had walked a considerable distance, they really arrived at the
boundary mark of his estate, which consisted of a wooden post with a small board
fixed to it. "Here we are, at the frontier!" said Nosdrieff, "all, what you can
possibly see on that side, is mine, and even on the other side, all that
extensive forest which looms there in the distance, and that, which is beyond
the forest, all is mine." "But since when has that forest become yours?"
inquired his brother-in-law. "You have bought it lately? for it was not yours
some time ago?" "Just so; I bought it quite recently," answered Nosdrieff. "How
did you manage to buy it so quickly, so suddenly?" "It's a fact, I bought it
about three days ago, and the deuce, I paid a handsome price for it." "But, if I
remember well, you were just at that time at the fair?" "Oh, what a simpleton
you are! Is it then impossible to be at the same time at a fair, whilst buying a
piece of land? Well, then, I was at the fair, whilst my manager bought the
forest and land." "Ah, your manager! that is another affair," said his brother-
in-law, but even then he seemed to question the matter as a fact, and shook his
head. CHAPTER XIX. Nosdrieff's guests were obliged to return by the same wet and
muddy road on which they came. When they had arrived at the house, Nosdrieff led
them into his private cabinet, in which, however, there were no traces of such
articles as one would expect to see in a private study: namely, books or papers;
the principal ornaments seemed to be a collection of swords, and two rifles, the
one the value of about three hundred roubles, the other might have cost eight
hundred. The brother-in-law looked around him, shook his head, but said nothing.
After this Nosdrieff exhibited some Turkish daggers, upon the one of them was
unfortunately the name of a celebrated Russian armourer of the name of
Siberiakoff. The exhibition was concluded by a grinding organ, which the owner
began to turn with the intention of entertaining his guests with some music. The
organ had a rather pleasing tone, but there seemed to be something wrong with
it, because the Mazurka which it was just playing ended with "The Marlborough
March," and "Marlborough's March" again, was suddenly superseded by a mixture of
one of Strauss' waltzes. Nosdrieff had long since left off turning the handle,
yet there seemed to be an obstinate flute in the organ, which would not cease to
send forth a long and plaintive tone, which continued for some considerable time
to whistle all by itself. To make up for this mishap, Nosdrieff produced his
collection of pipes; there was a great variety of them, some of common red and
white clay, some meerschaums already coloured, and some others quite new, some
of them were carefully sown into doeskin, others again had no doeskin; he also
showed them some cherry tubes of great beauty and length, with amber mouth-
pieces, and without any; among those with mouth-pieces there was a very valuable
one which he had but recently won in a raffle, he did not fail to boast of an
embroidered tobacco-pouch, which he had received from a countess, whilst on his
road to Smolensk, and who had fallen head over ears in love with him, and if we
are to believe still further what he said about this adventure, the lady's hands
were of such a beautiful shape that he could not find better words to express
his appreciation, of their perfection but by calling them "fatally superfine,"
which no doubt meant with him the highest degree of perfection. After having
shown all he possessed to his guests, he led them into the dining-room, where
they took a small glass of liqueur to excite the appetite, and then sat down to
dinner, considerably after five o'clock in the afternoon. A good dinner seemed
not to be the first condition in the happy existence of Nosdrieff; a variety of
dishes did not play a principal _rÃ´le_ upon his table; some of the eatables were
too much roasted, whilst others were not sufficiently cooked. It was obvious
that his _chef de cuisine_ was accustomed to a kind of freemasonry in his art,
and that he had made up the dishes with the first comestibles that came under
his hands or notice; if pepper was the nearest article in his reach, he would
throw some pepper into the saucepan, if cabbage was at hand, he was sure to
stuff the saucepan with cabbage, add some milk, ham, peas, in a word, everything
was thrown pell-mell into the boiler, provided it was hot; as for the taste, he
was sure that his cookery would have plenty of that. To make up for any
deficiencies of his cook, Nosdrieff stuck to the wine; soup was not yet served,
when he had already supplied his guests with some port wine in two large
tumblers, and some Haut Sauterne in two others, because in small provincial
towns and country places they do not keep simple Sauterne. Nosdrieff then
ordered his servant, Porphir--who served at table--to bring in a bottle of
Madeira, of such an exquisite taste and dry quality that the Prince Field-
Marshal Paskievitch would have been proud to taste it. The Madeira wine was
really of a fiery taste, because the wine merchants were too well acquainted
with the taste of landed proprietors, who like a strong and dry glass of
Madeira, and for that reason they mix it unmercifully with brandy, and sometimes
even with the monopolised imperial raw spirit, in the hope that the excellent
constitution of a Russian stomach will be able to digest it. A little later,
Nosdrieff ordered that another bottle should be brought in of some particularly
good wine, which, according to his words, was both Burgundy and Champagne; this
wine he poured out very freely to the right and to the left, to his brother-in-
law and to Tchichikoff; Tchichikoff, however, observed with a side glance, that
Nosdrieff had taken but little himself of his extra wine. This made him become
very cautious, and, as soon as Nosdrieff seemed warmly engaged in conversation
with his brother-in-law, he immediately took advantage of the opportunity to
pour some of that extra wine into his plate. In the course of dinner, a roast
heath-cock was put upon the table, which, according to Nosdrieff, would have its
mild a taste as cream, but which, to the surprise of his guests, had a positive
taste of a badly cooked sea-gull. They then tasted some French _beaume_, a sweet
liqueur with such an extraordinary name that it was quite impossible to
recollect it, for the host himself, called it the second time by a different
appellation. They had finished dining long since, and had been drinking all
sorts of wine, yet the host and his guests remained seated at table. Tchichikoff
did not like the idea of beginning a conversation with Nosdrieff, on his all-
important subject, in the presence of his brother-in-law, whom he considered a
stranger, and the matter on which he intended to speak to Nosdrieff demanded a
private, confidential, and friendly interview. However, the brother-in-law did
not look like a dangerous man at the moment, because he seemed to have taken a
copious libation, was moving to and fro in his chair, and continually twitching
his nose with his left hand. He began to feel uneasy and as if he had a
presentiment of an approaching hopeless condition; he at last begun to beg to be
allowed to return home, but with such an idle and heavy voice, as if, to use a
Russian phrase, "he was pulling a horse-collar upon the horse's neck with a pair
of pincers." "Oh, no, no, no! I shall not allow you to go!" said Nosdrieff.
"Pray do not offend me, my good friend, by detaining me, I really must leave
you," his brother-in-law said, "you will very much offend me if you insist upon
my staying any longer." "Nonsense, folly! we will presently have a small game."
"Not I, my dear fellow, you may do as you like; my wife will have all sorts of
ideas, I shall have to tell her of the fair. I really must give her some
pleasant surprise after my long absence. No, oblige me, and do not try to keep
me here any longer." "Send your wife to the d--l! what's the use of your going
home in your present state?" "No, brother! she is such an excellent and virtuous
wife; she is full of favours for me--would you believe me, I feel the tears
coming into my eyes. No, do not keep me any longer, on my honour as a gentleman,
I shall leave you, and I give you this assurance like an honest man." "Let him
depart, of what good could he be?" Tchichikoff whispered slowly to Nosdrieff.
"You are right, by Jove!" said Nosdrieff, "I cannot bear the sight of these
nervous fools!" and he added aloud, "well, the d--l be with you; go and make
love to your better-half, you slave to gynÃ¦ocracy!" "No, brother, you ought not
to call me by any of those foreign names," his brother-in-law replied, "as for
my wife, I owe her my existence. She is an amiable and loving woman and is full
of such tenderness--she often moves me to tears; no, the more I think of her the
more I wish to return to her; she is sure to ask me what I have seen and done at
the fair, and I shall have to tell her all, for she is an angel of a woman!" "Be
off then, and tell her as much as you like! there is your cap." "Nay, brother
Nosdrieff, you are wrong in wanting respect for your own sister; by committing a
breach of politeness towards her, you offend me as well, and you know well what
an amiable woman my wife is." "Therefore, I cannot advise you better than to
hasten into her arms as soon as you like, and sooner if possible!" "Yes,
brother, I must leave you, excuse me, but really I cannot stay any longer. My
heart would be rejoiced if I could stay, but I must not tarry any longer."
Nosdrieff's brother-in-law continued yet for a considerable time to express his
regrets and excuses, without noticing that he had been already seated for some
time in his own carriage, that he had long since departed from Nosdrieff's
house, and that nothing but open fields and the high road were before him. It
might be easily imagined, that his wife heard but little of what he had seen and
done at the fair. CHAPTER XX. "What a stupid fellow!" said Nosdrieff, whilst
standing at the window and looking after his brother-in-law's carriage as it was
gradually disappearing in the distance. "Look here how he is driving off; one of
his off horses is rather a fine animal, I have long had my eye upon it. However,
it is quite impossible to come to any understanding with the man. He is such an
odd fellow." After saying this, Nosdrieff and Tchichikoff entered another room.
Porphir brought in some candles, and Tchichikoff observed in the hands of his
host a pack of cards, for the sudden appearance of which he could not possibly
account. "What do you say, my dear fellow," Nosdrieff remarked, whilst pressing
the back of the pack with his fingers in such a manner, that they got slightly
bent, and the wrapper in which they were broke; "Now then, and in order to pass
our time pleasantly, I propose to hold the bank with three hundred roubles in
it." But Tchichikoff pretended not to have heard the other's proposal, and said,
as if suddenly recollecting something: "Ah! by the bye, and ere I forget it
again; I have request to make." "What is it?" "Give me first your promise to
fulfil it." "But what is your request?" "Never mind, give me your promise!"
"'Tis granted." "Your word of honour." "My word of honour." "And now hear my
request: you have no doubt, my dear fellow, a number of dead serfs, that have
not been yet struck out from the lists of the last census?" "Yes, I have; but
why?" "Transfer them to me, to my name." "And for what purpose do you want
them?" "Suffice it, if I tell you I want them." "But for what purpose?" "As I
told you before I want them; the rest is my business, in a word then, I want to
have them." "No doubt you are up to something. Come, old fellow, confess it,
eh?" "To what should I be up? how could I be up to anything with such worthless
trash, as dead serfs?" "But why should you then tell me you want to have them?"
"Oh, what a curious fellow you are! you wish to touch everything, or rather
thrash with your own hands, and smell at it besides!" "But why don't you tell
me?" "And where would be the advantage if you knew it? well then if you must
know it, it is a sudden fancy I have." "Well then, look here, my dear fellow:
unless you tell me the truth, you shall not have my dead serfs!" "And now I must
confess, that this is not honourable on your part: you gave me your word of
honour, and now you try to back out of it." "As you like, my dear fellow, but
you shall not have them unless you tell me of what use they could be to you,
dead as they are." "What shall I tell him," said Tchichikoff to himself, and
after a moment's reflection, stated, that he wanted those dead serfs for the
purpose of gaining a greater influence in society, that he did not possess a
large property, and that until his fortunes changed these dead serfs would be a
consolation to him. "Stuff, nonsense!" said Nosdrieff, not giving him even
proper time to finish his phrase, "bosh, my dear fellow!" Tchichikoff could not
help making the observation to himself, that his invention was far from being
clever, and that the pretence was a very weak one indeed. "Well then, I will be
more explicit," said he, whilst recovering himself from his first defeat, "but
pray do not betray me in letting it out. I have come to the resolution of
getting married; but I must tell you that the parents of my intended are very
ambitious persons. 'Tis quite a bore to me. I am sorry even that I gave my
promise; they insist that the future husband of their daughter should absolutely
have, at least, three hundred serfs to call his Own, and as I am short of the
round sum of hundred and fifty, I thought ..."

"Bosh! bosh!" Nosdrieff shouted again. "Now, my dear fellow," said Tchichikoff,
"in telling you this much, I have spoken the truth, there is not even this much
of imposition in what I told you," and here he showed the extremest point of his
little finger. "I lay my head, that you told me a falsehood." "This is offensive
in reality! what do you take me for? And why should I absolutely tell a
falsehood?" "'Tis all very fine, my dear fellow, but I know you; you are a gay
deceiver. Allow me to tell you something between ourselves, and quite
confidentially. If I was your commander-in-chief, I should have you hanged on
the first and nearest tree." Tchichikoff felt shocked and offended at this
remark, for every observation, however slightly uncivil or offensive to
propriety, was highly disagreeable to him. He avoided as much as possible
allowing any familiarities to be taken with him, and in extreme cases would only
permit such to be taken as might be termed the most delicate. And for that
reason, he was now deeply offended, and sensibly hurt at the observation made by
Nosdrieff. "By heaven I should have you hanged," repeated Nosdrieff, "I tell you
this candidly, not with the intention of offending you; oh no! but simply,
friendly and confidentially." "Every thing has its limits," said Tchichikoff,
with an air of dignity. "If you like to boast in such language, I would advise
you to go into a barrack;" and then he added, "if you don't like to let me have
them for nothing, well then sell me them." "Sell them! but I know you well, you
are a gay deceiver. You will not offer me a fair price for them?" "Eh! you are a
fine bird too! look at them! what are they to you. Do you value them like
diamonds?" "It is as I thought, when I told you that I knew you." "Pardon me, my
dear fellow, but you have quite Jewish inclinations. You ought to let me have
them for nothing." "Now then, listen, in order to show you how far you are
mistaken in me, and that I am no selfish animal, I shall take nothing for my
dead serfs. Buy my stallion of me, and I'll give them to you into the bargain."
"But, my dear fellow, what am I to do with a stallion?" said Tchichikoff, quite
bewildered by such a proposal. "What to do? But remember, my dear fellow, I paid
ten thousand roubles for the animal, and I'll let you have him for only four
thousand." "But of what use could a stallion be to me? I do not keep a horse-
breeding institution, like his most glorious Majesty our Emperor does." "But, my
dear fellow, you seem not to understand me. I'll only take three thousand
roubles of you now, and as for the remaining thousand, you may pay me later at
your own convenience." "But I do not want your stallion, nor any one else's.
Heaven be with the whole race!" "Well, will you buy my hunter, the grey mare?"
"I do not want a mare either." "For that mare, and the other grey horse you have
seen in my stables, I'll only take three thousand roubles from you." "But I do
not want any horses." "You may sell them. You are sure to get at any fair, or
sale, more than three times their present value." "Then it would be better for
you to sell them yourself, if you are convinced you could get as much as three
times their value." "I am sure, I could make as much, but I wish you to derive
that benefit." Tchichikoff thanked him for the friendly intention, but
obstinately refused either to have the grey mare, or the grey horse. "Well then,
will you buy some of my dogs? I'll sell you a pair with a skin as smooth as a
thirty degrees frost! a spotted pair with moustachios, and upstanding hair like
a pig's bristles, the roundness of their ribs is quite incomprehensible, their
paws are swiftness itself, they scarcely touch the ground." "Of what use could
dogs be to me? I am not a sportsman." "But I wish you to have some dogs. Very
well, if you won't have any of my dogs, you ought to buy my organ, it is a most
wonderful instrument; on my word of honour, it has cost, me more than one
thousand five hundred roubles; but you shall have it for nine hundred." "But
what am I to do with an organ? I am not a German, that I should go dragging it
along, and grinding it in the streets, whilst begging the passers by for alms."
"But, my dear fellow, you are mistaken, it is not an organ like the Germans
carry about, it is a regular, really musical organ; just come along and look at
it, it is all of mahogany. I'll show it you once more." Hereupon Nosdrieff
seized Tchichikoff by the hand, and began to pull him into the next room, and
however much the other resisted by stemming his feet against the floor, and as
well by persuading him that he perfectly well recollected the organ, it was of
no use, and he was obliged to listen once more to the tune of Marlborough's
march, and Strauss' familiar valse. "If you don't wish to make a bargain for all
cash, then listen to what I propose to you. I'll give you this organ, and as
many dead serfs as I have got, and you will give me in return your britchka, and
three hundred roubles in hard cash." "What an idea! and pray, in what am I to
drive home?" "I'll give you another britchka. Come, let us go to the coach-
house, I'll show it to you! You will only have to paint it afresh and it will be
an excellent carriage." "Oh, good heaven, it seems the devil has possessed him!"
thought Tchichikoff within himself, and he came to the resolution, whatever the
consequences might be, to decline all descriptions of britchkas, organs, and all
imaginable breeds of dogs, without regard to their incomprehensible swiftness
and smell. "And, remember," added Nosdrieff, "I offer you a britchka, an organ,
and all my dead serfs, the whole in a batch!" "I won't have them!" Tchichikoff
exclaimed once more. "Why won't you have them then?" "Simply because I won't
have them, and there is an end." "What a curious fellow you are; it would seem
it is quite impossible to live on friendly terms with you, as is customary among
good comrades, you are such an obstinate fellow! It is evident you are a
deceitful man!" "But for what do you take me, surely not for a fool? just
reflect for a moment: why should I make the acquisition of such things as are of
no earthly use whatever to me?" "Pray don't talk. I know you now perfectly well.
You are a regular box of antiquities! However, listen to me, will you play faro?
I'll stake all my dead serfs on a card, and my organ in the bargain." "Well, to
venture a game, means to expose one-self to uncertainties," spoke Tchichikoff,
and meanwhile he kept glancing stealthily at the pack of cards which Nosdrieff
had taken in his hands again. The cards seemed to him to be of an artificial
make, and the corners looked very suspicious. "What do you mean by
uncertainties?" demanded Nosdrieff. "There cannot be the least uncertainty,
provided only fortune smiles on you, you may win enormously. Look here! what
luck! said he," as he commenced the game of faro, in the hope of exciting a
gambling passion in his guest. "What a chance! what luck! look here: thus you
might win in reality! there is the confounded nine, upon which I lost all. I had
a presentiment, that this card would sell my luck, and closing my eyes, I
thought to myself: I am sold if that confounded card turns up." As Nosdrieff
spoke thus, Porphir entered with a fresh bottle. But Tchichikoff positively
refused either to play or to drink. "But why won't you play at least?" demanded
Nosdrieff. "Because I am not in the humour. And besides, I must confess I am not
partial to gambling." "Why, how is this, you are not fond of gambling?"
Tchichikoff shrugged his shoulders, and added: "just so, I am not an amateur."
"You are a precious fool!" "I can't help that, Heaven has made me so." "You are
a regular humbug! Till now, I was under the impression that you were a reputable
man in some respects, but now I plainly perceive that you have not the slightest
sense of propriety and good manners. It is impossible to speak to you as one
would speak to a friend. You have no candour, no straightforwardness; you are
the image of Sobakevitch, you are like him, a regular sneaking fellow!" "But why
do you scold me and call me all sorts of names? Is it my fault if I don't like
gambling? And if you are such a man as to value such a trash as your dead serfs
are, well then, sell them to me, name your price." "Since you are such a mean
fellow, you shall not have them at all! Originally,' I intended to present them
to you as a token of my friendship, gratuitously, but now you shall not have
them at any price! Nay, were you even to offer me a kingdom, I would not part
with them. You are a shuffler, a wretched potter! From this very moment, I won't
speak another word with you. Porphir, go and tell my stable-boy not to give any
oats to his horses, let them feed on dry hay." The latter determination of
Nosdrieff's, Tchichikoff was far from anticipating. "Now I could wish I had
never seen you before," added Nosdrieff. Regardless of this altercation between
them, the guest and his host nevertheless sat down and took supper together,
although this time there were no wines with inexpressible names put on the
table. The only bottle that passed between them was a bottle of Kahetian wine,
which possessed all the peculiarities of a green and sour vinegar beverage.
After a silent supper, Nosdrieff led Tchichikoff into a small adjoining room in
which a bed had been prepared for him. "Here is your bed; I do not wish you even
a good night's rest!" CHAPTER XXI. Tchichikoff remained after Nosdrieff's
departure in the most unpleasant frame of mind. He was inwardly angry with
himself; he scolded himself for having accepted Nosdrieff's invitation, and thus
uselessly losing his time. But what vexed him most was that he had imprudently
begun to speak of his all-important object, like a child, like a fool; because
this business was not of a nature to be entrusted to Nosdrieff--Nosdrieff, a man
without any worth or sense; he could compromise him, he could tell stories, make
additions, and spread, heaven knows what calumnies about, and thus place him in
the greatest difficulties--it was neither right nor well! "I have made a regular
ass of myself," said he to himself. He spent a very sleepless night. Some very
small, but also very daring insects, kept biting him unmercifully, so much so,
that he could not help scratching the wounded spots, and prompted by utter
agony, adding each time, "I wish you to the devil and your master, Nosdrieff, as
well!" After a very short but sound slumber, he awoke very early the next
morning. The first occupation he undertook was to slip into a morning-gown and
into his boots, he then went across the court-yard into the stable, and ordered
Selifan to put the horses immediately in his britchka. On returning from the
stable he met Nosdrieff, who made his appearance also in a long morning-gown,
and with a Turkish pipe in his mouth. Nosdrieff accosted him in a friendly
manner, and inquired how he had passed the night. "Tolerably," answered
Tchichikoff, rather dryly. "And I, my dear fellow," continued Nosdrieff, "I have
passed a most wretched night, I have been victimised by an army of insects, and
I now feel as if I had been sleeping in a barrack. Imagine, I dreamt that I had
been regularly horsewhipped, yes, truly, and by whom do you think? This you will
never guess; by my intimate friends, Colonel Pozelueff and Lieutenant
Kuvschinikoff." "Yes," thought Tchichikoff to himself, "it would be an excellent
thing if you were to receive a thrashing in reality." "By heaven, and it feels
painful even now! When I awoke I really felt pains all over me, and such an
unpleasant itching, no doubt the confounded fleas have again been at me. You had
better go now and dress yourself, and I will be with you almost immediately. I
have only to go and scold my manager, the rogue." Tchichikoff went into his room
to wash and dress himself. When he had done so, he entered the dining-room,
where he found the table laid with a tea service and a bottle of brandy. In this
room, his eyes also met with the remains of the dinner and supper of the
preceding day; it seemed as if the broom had not made its appearance there; the
floor was strewn with bread crumbs, and tobacco ashes were even still lying on
the table cloth. The host himself did not fail to make his appearance soon
after; he had no other dress on him but a loose Turkish morning-gown, which
rather displayed than concealed his broad chest, upon which a regular beard
seemed to grow freely. Holding in one hand his long Turkish pipe and in the
other a cup of tea, he would have made a characteristic subject for a painter,
who hates gentlemen of propriety, with curled hair, like a hairdresser's sign-
board, or a head shorn _Ã  la diable m'emporte_. "Now then, what are you thinking
about?" said Nosdrieff, after a momentary silence, "will you, or will you not
play for my dead serfs?" "My dear fellow, I have already told you once for all,
I won't play, but if you like I am ready to buy them." "I won't sell them,
because it would not be acting in a friendly manner towards you; but I'm still
disposed to play for them as long as you like. Come, let us have a turn, if but
one only!" "As I told you before, no." "And you won't barter, either?" "No, I
won't." "Now, listen and don't be so obstinate, let us have a game of draughts,
if you win they shall all be yours; and, I remember now that I have got a number
of dead serfs, that ought to be struck out from the census list of the living.
Holloa, Porphir, bring me the draught-board here." "Tis a useless trouble, I
shall not play." "But that is not playing at cards; there can be no chance or
shuffling; all depends upon ingenuity. I must even tell you beforehand, that I
am no player at all, and that you might as well give me a price in advance."
Tchichikoff thought to himself, "Well, I'll venture to play a game with him! I
used to play once at draughts tolerably well, besides, there is no chance for
him to cheat. Very well, then, in order to oblige you I'll play you a game." "My
dead serfs against a hundred roubles." "Why? it will be high enough, if I lay
fifty against them?" "No, fifty roubles is quite a ridiculous stake. I would
rather, in order to make up a round sum, include a couple of my thorough-bred
dogs, or a gold watch-guard." "Very well," Tchichikoff answered. "How many
draughtsmen will you give me in advance?" demanded Nosdrieff. "How did you come
upon this idea? certainly none." "At least give me the two first moves." "No, I
won't, I am a bad player myself." "I believe you, my boy, you and a bad player!"
exclaimed Nosdrieff, whilst pushing forward a draughtsman. "I have not played
draughts for a long while," said Tchichikoff, whilst also advancing a
draughtsman. "I believe you, my boy, you and a bad player," said Nosdrieff,
pushing forward another draughtsman. "I have not been playing for a very long
while," Tchichikoff said, also advancing a draughtsman. "I believe you, my boy,
you and a bad player," said Nosdrieff, whilst again moving a draughtsman, and at
the same time he advanced a second one with the sleeve of his Turkish morning-
gown. "'Tis long ago since I took them last in my hands--oh, eh! my dear fellow,
what is this? put that back!" said Tchichikoff. "What?" "This draughtsman
there," said Tchichikoff, but at the same time he saw another before his very
nose, ready to enter and become a king, but from where it came, and how it could
have so suddenly advanced, it was impossible for Tchichikoff to account. "No,"
said Tchichikoff, rising from table, "it is impossible to play with you! To
advance three draughtsmen at once is against the rules of the game altogether."
"How do you mean, three men at once? That was a mistake. One of them might have
advanced accidentally, I'll move it back if you like." "But where does that
other come from?" "Which other?" "This one here, ready to become a king." "Well,
I'm sure, don't you recollect it?" "Certainly not, my dear fellow, I have
noticed every move, and I remember them all; you have only just now advanced it.
Its place is here." "How, where is its place?" said Nosdrieff, blushing deeply,
"but, my dear fellow, it seems to me that you would like to take me in." "No,
not I, my dear fellow, but it is evident that you want to do so with me, only
you are rather unsuccessful." "For whom do you take me?" said Nosdrieff, "do you
think that I could be capable of shuffling?" "I do not take you for anybody, but
from henceforth I shall never play with you again." "But stop, you can't back
out of this game, you have began it, you must play it out," said Nosdrieff
hotly. "I have the right to refuse, because you have not been playing as it
becomes a gentleman." "You lie, for you cannot prove it!" "No, my dear fellow,
it's you who are the liar!" "I have not been shuffling, you dare not refuse to
continue, and you must finish the game." "You cannot compel me to do that," said
Tchichikoff coolly, and approaching the table, he upset the draughtsmen.
Nosdrieff jumped from his seat in a rage, and drew so close to Tchichikoff that
he made him step back two paces. "I shall oblige you to play it out. It matters
little, that the draughtsmen are mixed. I remember every move. We will arrange
them again as they were." "No, my dear fellow, there is an end to it, I shall
not play with you." "Then you positively refuse to finish the game?" "You must
allow yourself that it is impossible to play with you." "Now, you obstinate
fellow, tell me once more, will you or will you not play?" spoke Nosdrieff
wildly, whilst walking still closer up to Tchichikoff. "I will not!" Tchichikoff
exclaimed, but at the same time he raised his hands towards his face ready for
any contingency, because the matter threatened to become rather hot. This
precaution was taken in good time, because Nosdrieff in his excitement had
raised his hand, and it might easily have happened, that one of the full and
agreeable cheeks of our hero, would have been covered with dishonour, which
could not be washed away; but he fortunately succeeded in escaping the blow, and
seized the madly infuriated Nosdrieff by both hands, and held him tightly.
"Porphir! Ivan!" shouted Nosdrieff in his madness, whilst striving to liberate
himself from Tchichikoff's powerful grasp. Hearing these names, Tchichikoff, in
order not to have the servants witnesses to a scandalous scene, and feeling
convinced also, that to holding Nosdrieff any longer would be of no advantage to
him, he let loose his hands. At that same moment, Porphir entered the room
followed by Ivan, a herculean looking fellow, with whom it would not have been
advisable to pick a quarrel. "Then you refuse to finish the game?" said
Nosdrieff. "Give me a positive answer quickly, you obstinate blockhead!" "It is
impossible to finish the game," answered Tchichikoff, and looked out of the
window at the same time; he beheld his britchka, which was standing there quite
ready, and Selifan seemed to wait but for a signal to drive up to the door; but
it was impossible for Tchichikoff to leave the room, the door was guarded by two
powerful slaves and tools of Nosdrieffs. "Then you positively refuse to finish
the game?" demanded again Nosdrieff, with a face as red hot as fire. "If you had
been playing as becomes a gentleman, I would have finished it, but now I
cannot." "Ah! you say you cannot, you humbug, when you see that you are likely
to lose the game, then it is that you cannot play! Horsewhip him," he shouted,
in a hoarse and infuriated voice, whilst turning towards Porphir and Ivan, and
seizing himself a long cherry pipe tube. Tchichikoff became as pale and white as
a sheet. He had evidently an intention to say something, but he felt, that his
lips moved without speaking a word. "Horsewhip him!" Nosdrieff again shouted,
rushing forward, with the cherry tube uplifted in his hand, all excited and
perspiring, as if he was about to storm an impregnable fortress. "Beat him!" he
shouted in the same voice with which, in the heat of an onset some valorous
lieutenant would address his men and say, "forward, children," and whose daring
has become so well known throughout the regiment, that special orders are always
given that he should be kept back with the rear guard, whenever an action of
importance is undertaken. But the fortress, against which Nosdrieff was
storming, was far from being impregnable, on the contrary, its outworks betrayed
her inward weakness, and its fear was so great, that the commander-in-chief--the
soul--went to hide himself in his heels. The chair with which Tchichikoff
attempted to defend himself, was wrenched from his hands by Nosdrieff's serfs,
and bereft of this last hope he closed his eyes and felt neither dead nor alive,
yet he tried to grasp once more at the Tcherkessian pipe of his brutal host, and
heaven knows, what the consequences might have been. But providence seemed to
pity the position as well as the ribs, shoulders, and all the well-formed
portions of our hero. At this unexpected yet opportune moment, the sounds of
post-horse bells were heard loudly ringing in the court-yard, and the wheels of
a carriage rolled quickly over the stones before the entrance of the house. It
was a telega, drawn by three horses, that had arrived so suddenly; shortly
after, heavy footsteps were heard quickly approaching the room in which the
actors of our present narrative were so dramatically collected. They all looked
involuntarily out of the window, and beheld a stranger in moustachios, dressed
in a half military and half plain coat, alighting from the telega. Having taken
his information in the anteroom, he entered at the very moment when Tchichikoff
had not yet recovered from his stupefaction, and when he was in the most
pitiable position in which a mortal man can possibly be. "Allow me to ask which
of you two gentlemen is Mr. Nosdrieff," said the stranger, looking with some
astonishment at Nosdrieff, who stood there with the cherry pipe tube in his
uplifted hand, and then at Tchichikoff, who had scarcely begun to recover from
his disadvantageous position. "Allow me first to ask you with whom I have the
honour of speaking?" said Nosdrieff, whilst approaching the stranger. "I am a
commissioner of the military police." "And what do you wish?" "I come to inform
you that in obedience to higher commands, I shall consider you my prisoner until
proper inquiries will have been instituted into the affair in which you are
compromised." "What nonsense! What affair do you mean?" demanded Nosdrieff. "You
were inculpated in an affair, or rather a riot, in which a certain lieutenant of
the guards, by name Maksimoff was insulted and even horsewhipped, whilst in a
state of intoxication." "That is perfectly false, Sir! I never saw in the whole
course of my life your lieutenant Maksimoff!" "My dear Sir, allow me to inform
you that I am an officer. You may call your servants liars but not me."
Tchichikoff did not wait to hear what Nosdrieff would reply to this observation,
but seized his cap, passed stealthily behind the back of the commissary of the
military police, and left the room. He was soon seated in his britchka, and
ordered Selifan to drive off as fast as his horses could gallop. CHAPTER XXII.
Our hero was still considerably terrified at the thought of his narrow escape.
Although the britchka was literally flying at a fearful speed, and Nosdrieff's
village nearly lost in the distance, hidden by fields, slopes and hills, yet he
still continued to turn round, and cast glances of terror behind him, as if
expecting to see suddenly his pursuers. His breathing was short and interrupted,
and when he laid his hand upon his broad breast to feel the beating of his
heart, he felt it throbbing like that of a quail in a cage. "Oh! what a regular
shower-bath! How could I ever expect that of the fellow!" Such exclamations were
followed by a variety of difficult and strong wishes for the future of
Nosdrieff, and were concluded by epithets certainly not of the choicest
language. "Say what I may," Tchichikoff remarked confidentially to himself,
"without the sudden appearance of the commissioner of the military police, I
might at this present moment be one less among the living in this world! I
should have disappeared like a bubble on the ocean, without leaving a trace
behind me, no heirs or children to inherit my honourable name, my modest
fortune!" Our hero seemed very anxious and concerned about his successors. "What
a nasty gentleman!" thought Selifan. "I have never seen such an ill-disposed man
before. He deserves to be despised. I could rather see a man without food, but a
horse must be fed because a horse likes oats. That is the proper food for his
maintenance. What meat is to us, so is oats to the horse, and that is the proper
food for horses." The horses also seemed to have a bad opinion of Nosdrieff; not
only the leader and the brown horse, but even the tiger-spotted idler seemed to
be in bad humour. Although the idler was used to receive less good oats
generally, and was also accustomed never to have them given to him by Selifan,
without being previously called a rogue, yet in this instance he seemed quite
disgusted; for notwithstanding the scolding he received his fair portion of
oats, and not as now, common hay; he used to eat his bad oats with pleasure, and
after, even put his enormous head into the crib of his comrades to see what good
things they were enjoying. This he did especially when Selifan was not in the
stable; but now they had had nothing else but hay, that was bad; all three were
dissatisfied. But soon after, the whole batch of malcontents were suddenly and
unexpectedly interrupted in the effusion of their wrath against Nosdrieff in an
unexpected manner. All, not excluding even the coachman, recovered and came to
their senses again, when they felt themselves in contact with a travelling-
carriage, drawn by six powerful horses, and heard the shrieks of ladies sitting
inside, and the scolding and swearing of the strange coachman. "Oh, you
scoundrel! did I not shout to you as loudly as possible! Turn to the right, you
crow! Are you drunk, or what else is the matter with you?" Selifan felt at once
that he was on the wrong side, but as a Russian does not like to acknowledge his
error before another, he therefore shouted forth his reply with an air of
importance:

"And what do you mean by driving like a madman? Have you, perhaps, left your
eyes in pawn at a dram-shop?" After having spoken thus, he endeavoured to back
his britchka, trying to liberate his horses, which had become entangled with
those of the other carriage; however, he only succeeded in making things worse.
The ladies sitting in the carriage looked at the scene of confusion before them
with the utmost terror expressed upon their faces. The one was an elderly lady;
the other, a young person about sixteen years of age, with golden ringlets, very
tastefully arranged around a pretty face and head. The charming oval of her face
was as evenly formed as a new-laid egg, and, like it, it possessed that peculiar
transparent whiteness which is only to be seen in a new-laid egg, when held up
towards the light by the gentle hand of a clever housekeeper, who is examining
its freshness by allowing the rays of the sun to shine through it; her finely-
shaped ears seemed also equally transparent, and were intersected by warmly-
flowing veins. From the sudden fright, her rosy lips had opened to display a
range of ivory teeth, and tears were sparkling in her eyes. All this was so
charming in her, that our hero glanced at her for some moments quite motionless,
and paying no attention whatever to the dispute which had arisen between the two
coachmen and their horses. "Will you back your horses, you Novgorodian crow?"
shouted the strange coachman. Selifan tugged at his reins; the strange driver
did as much, and the horses, in obedience to the impulse, retreated a little,
and then came into contact again, were anew entangled, and the confusion was
greater than before. While the confusion was thus growing worse confounded, some
peasants began to gather round the carriages and horses; they came running as
fast as they could from an adjoining village; and as such a sight is for a
Russian peasant like a Christmas-box, or like a newspaper and a glass of stout
would be to an Englishman, so but little time elapsed before the carriages were
both surrounded by a few hundred gaping mouzhiks, and the village was left to
the care of only old women and young children. The entangled traces were soon
cut; a few heavy blows applied to the head of the tiger-spotted idler made him
retreat; in a word, the horses were soon separated and led aside. The interest
and the curiosity of the gaping peasants rose to an incredible degree. Every one
of them was anxious to give an advice or a suggestion:

"You go, Andrushka, and lead that front horse a little about, the one that is
standing on the right-hand side from us; and Uncle Mitja would do well to mount
the tiger-spotted animal! Get on his back, Mitja!" During the time that Selifan
and the strange coachman were arranging the traces of their respective horses,
Tchichikoff had continued to look very attentively at the young lady stranger.
He made an attempt to address her several times, but, somehow or another, he
thought there was no favourable opportunity. Meanwhile, the ladies drove off,
the pretty head, and face with the fine outlines, the slender figure, all
disappeared like an apparition; and there remained nothing but the high-road,
the britchka, the three horses already familiar to our reader, Selifan, and the
level and empty fields surrounding them. "A charming little woman!" said he,
whilst opening his snuff-box, and taking a pinch of snuff. "But what is the most
handsome thing about her? It is pleasant to see, that she seems just to have
left a boarding-school, or some such institution, and that there is yet nothing
womanly, or rather matronly about her, and that is one of the most unpleasing
features in the sex. She is still like a child, all in her is still natural, she
will speak what she thinks, she will laugh at every thing that pleases her. She
might yet be taught any thing and every thing, she might become an accomplished
and virtuous woman, and she might also turn out the very contrary. If she now
happens to come under the control and advice of her mother or aunts, then
farewell natural innocence! In a year they will have changed her so completely
by instilling into her, what they are pleased to term the dignities of a woman,
that her own father will have every difficulty to recognise, in that young
person, his own daughter. "From the elder ladies, she will derive conceitedness
and affected manners, move about according to the dictates of fashion, torment
her brains to know, with whom, about what, and how much she might venture to
speak, and especially how to look at them; every moment she will be alarmed
least she should speak more than is strictly necessary. At last, she will become
confused from so much unnatural exertion, and dissimulation will become natural
to her, and then--heaven knows what she may come to next!" Having spoken thus
much to himself, Tchichikoff remained silent for some moments, and then he
added:

"It would be rather satisfactory to know who she is? Yes, what her father might
be? Is he perhaps a rich landed proprietor of high respectability, or simply a
respectable man with a large fortune acquired in serving his country? Because,
let me suppose, that this pretty little girl receives but five thousand roubles
as a marriage gift, she would become a most acceptable, nay a very enticing
little woman. And this would constitute, so to say, the happiness of a
respectable man." The sum of five thousand roubles represented itself so
attractively to his mind, that he began to scold himself inwardly for not having
obtained some information about who the ladies were from their coachman, during
the time that the confusion among the horses lasted. Soon after, however, the
appearance of Sobakevitch's village began to distract his attention from the
ladies, and he returned to his friend and more serious purposes. The village
seemed to him tolerably large, and even of importance; there were two forests,
the one of birch-trees, the other of pines, the one of a gay colour, the other
dark, spread out like wings on the right and left of the village; in the centre
of it stood a large wooden building with a balcony, a roof with red tiles, and
dark grey painted walls, the style of architecture reminding one of a barrack,
or the primitive buildings of German emigrants. It was evident that the builder
of this house must have been in continual opposition to the taste of the owner.
The builder was a pedant, and adhered to symmetry, the owner preferred
conformity to the purpose, and, thus it seemed that in consequence of the
differences of taste, the lawful lord of the mansion had blocked up the windows
of the whole of one of the fronts of the house, and left only a small aperture
instead, no doubt to serve as a skylight to some lumber-room. The principal
entrance to the house stood by no means in the centre, notwithstanding the good
intents of the architect, because the owner of it had ordered one of the side
columns to be removed and thus the principal entrance did not display as
originally intended four columns, but only three. The whole of the court-yard
was enclosed by a strong and unusually thick wooden wall. The proprietor seemed
to have been particularly concerned about everything being of the greatest
possible durability. Upon the construction of his stables, penthouse and
kitchen, he had employed full grown and heavy logs calculated to last an
eternity. The houses of his peasants in the village were also of a wonderfully
strong and lasting construction, they nowhere displayed any of the common
gingerbread ornaments, but every one of them was a solid mass of logs of wood.
Even the wall was enclosed by such large stems of fir as would only be employed
as sleepers for a railway, or in the construction of ships. In a word, upon
whatever kind of building Tchichikoff happened to cast a glance, his sight met
with a _piÃ¨ce de rÃ©sistance_, unmistakeable, presenting a durable but clumsy
appearance. END OF VOL. I. HOME LIFE IN RUSSIA,

BY

A RUSSIAN NOBLE. REVISED

BY THE EDITOR OF

REVELATIONS OF SIBERIA. IN TWO VOLUMES. VOL. II. LONDON:

HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

SUCCESSORS TO HENRY COLBURN,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET. 1854. HOME LIFE IN RUSSIA. CHAPTER I. On driving
up to the entrance-hall, Tchichikoff beheld two faces at once, looking out
through the window: the one was a feminine face, narrow and long, like a
cucumber; the other was the round face of a man, broad like a Moldavian pumpkin,
out of which our Russian peasants are accustomed to make their light and two-
stringed balalaikas, the charming instrument with which, some handsome cock of
the village will on a fine summer's evening gather young and old around him, and
sing and whistle some merry ditty to the white-bosomed maiden of his heart, who
delights in the slow and melancholy strains of his music. The two faces which
had just presented themselves at the window disappeared again suddenly. A
servant, dressed in a grey jacket with a blue upstanding collar, came out upon
the landing and led Tchichikoff into a reception-room, in which soon after the
host himself made his appearance. Perceiving and recognizing who his guest was,
the host exclaimed abruptly: "Pray, enter!" and he led him into the interior of
his house. As Tchichikoff cast a side glance upon Sobakevitch, the man seemed to
him very much like a bear of the middle size. To complete this resemblance, he
wore a coat perfectly of the colour of a bear's skin, with large sleeves, and a
pair of large inexpressibles. His walk was by starts, sideways and bent
together, and he was in the continual habit of treading upon other people's
feet. His complexion was of a glowing, hot colour, like that of a new penny.
Tchichikoff glanced once more and stealthily at him as they were passing the
dining-room; "A bear, a complete bear!" he thought to himself. It was impossible
to conceive a more striking resemblance. Knowing that he had the habit of
trampling upon other persons' feet, our hero was very careful how he placed his,
and allowed him to walk before him. The host seemed to feel the sin of his
awkwardness and immediately turned round and said, "Have I, by any chance, hurt
you?" But Tchichikoff thanked him, and said, "That as yet he had not felt any
inconvenience." On entering the reception-room, Sobakevitch pointed to an arm-
chair, saying again, abruptly, "Pray be seated!" In sitting down Tchichikoff
looked at the walls and the pictures that were hanging on them. The pictures all
represented finely grown men, apparently the leaders of the last struggle for
Hellenic independence; they were full-sized engravings; Mavrocordato in a pair
of red breeches and military dress, with a pair of spectacles upon his nose;
Miaouli and Kanaris. All these heroes were represented with such enormous ties-
and extraordinary moustachios, that the sight of them made Tchichikoff shudder.
Among the heroic Hellenes there was also the portrait of the Russian General
Bagration, memorable for his services in the year 1812, a meagre, careworn old
man; heaven knows why he had been placed among these dashing heroes. Next came
the portrait of the Grecian heroine, Bobelina, whose foot seemed to be larger
than the whole trunk of any of the fashionables of our present drawing-rooms.
The host being a healthy and strong-built man himself, seemed to like that his
rooms should also be adorned with the portraits of strong and healthy persons.
Close to the Grecian heroine, Bobelina, and quite close to the window, hung a
cage, from which a well-fed blackbird was peeping out, which was also very much
like Sobakevitch. The guest and host had not been silent for two minutes, when
the door suddenly opened and the lady hostess made her appearance, a lady of a
very high figure, in a cap profusely ornamented with ribbons, which seemed to
have been dyed at home. She entered the room very ceremoniously, holding her
head as straight as a palm-tree. "This is my beloved Pheodulia Ivanovna!" said
Sobakevitch. Tchichikoff respectfully approached Pheodulia Ivanovna, and
according to Russian fashion, kissed her hand, which she nearly pushed between
his lips, at the same time he had an opportunity to observe, or rather smell,
that her hands had been washed in salt cucumber water. "My darling, allow me to
introduce you to Pavel Ivanovitch Tchichikoff!" continued Sobakevitch, "I had
the honour of making his acquaintance at our Lord-Lieutenant's, and at the
Postmaster-general's." Pheodulia Ivanovna asked Tchichikoff to sit down, saying
also very abruptly, "I beg you will be seated!" and making a peculiar movement
with her head, not unlike that of an actress playing a tragedy queen. After
having done this, she seated herself upon the sofa, covered herself with a
merino shawl, and did not again move either her eyes or her lips. Tchichikoff
lifted up his eyes again and beheld once more the Grecian hero, Kanaris, with
his enormous ties and interminable moustachios, as well as the heroine,
Bobelina, and the blackbird in its cage. For more than five minutes all three
remained silent; the only sign of animation proceeded from the blackbird, who
was pecking the wood of his cage with his beak, and gathering the bread crumbs
on the bottom of it. Tchichikoff glanced once more around the room, and all,
whatever his eyes beheld--all was solid, clumsy, and tasteless in the highest
degree, and had a particular and strange resemblance to the host himself; in one
of the corners of the room, there stood a large paunch-bellied nutwood bureau,
upon four shapeless legs, a perfect bear. The table, the arm-chairs, the common
chairs, all were of the most heavy and uncomfortable description, in a word,
every article which constituted the furniture of this room seemed to speak; and
I am also Sobakevitch! "We have been thinking of you at the house of the
President of the Courts of Justice, Ivan Gregorievitch," at last said
Tchichikoff, perceiving that no one seemed inclined to break the silence and
begin to speak, "we thought of you on Thursday last. I spent a very pleasant
evening there." "True, I was not at the President's on that evening," answered
Sobakevitch. "He is an excellent and worthy man!" exclaimed Tchichikoff. "Whom
do you mean?" said Sobakevitch, looking at the corner of his store. "The
President of the Courts of Justice, to be sure." "Well, he might have seemed so
to you; he is a freemason, and such a fool, that the world cannot produce his
equal." Tchichikoff was rather startled when he heard this cutting qualification
of a person he knew, but recovering immediately from his surprise, he continued:
"To be sure, every man has his foibles, but I cannot help expressing my
admiration for the Governor-General." "The Lord-Lieutenant, a man worthy of
admiration?" "Yes, and I hope you will agree with me in that opinion?" "He is
the greatest scoundrel on the face of the earth." "What did you say? the
Governor-General the greatest scoundrel?" exclaimed Tchichikoff, perfectly
incapable of comprehending how the Lord-Lieutenant of the government of Smolensk
could possibly have entered the ranks of scoundrels. "I must confess, I should
never have believed that," he continued. "However, allow me to observe, his
actions do not at all seem such, on the contrary, I should rather say that I
believe him a man who possesses many pleasant weaknesses." Here he also alluded
to the knitting and embroidery talents of his Excellency the Lord-Lieutenant of
the province, as an authority for his opinion of him, and expressed himself in
the highest terms of the winning expression of the Governor-General's
countenance. "And his face even, is that of a scoundrel!" said Sobakevitch.
"Only place a knife in his hands, and let him free upon the high road, he will
cut your throat, he will murder you even for a copek! He and the Vice-Governor,
also, are of the same cast, they both are Gog and Magog." "No, I cannot be
mistaken, he is not on good terms with them," thought Tchichikoff to himself.
"And I think I shall do better to speak to him about the Chief of the Police
force, he seems to be his friend." "However, as far as I am personally
concerned," he said, "I must confess that I like the Chief Commissioner of the
Police force better than any other dignitary in Smolensk. He is such a
straightforward and candid man, his face speaks in his favour, and proclaims his
kindness of heart." "He is a rogue," said Sobakevitch very coolly, "he will sell
you, betray you, and then even dine with you! I know them all but too well; they
are all great rogues, the whole town of Smolensk is inhabited by such men; a
rogue sitting on a rogue, and driving on a batch of rogues. All are Christian
sellers. To my knowledge, there is but one honest man among them, and that man
is the Imperial Procurator; but even he, if we were to judge him strictly, even
he is a pig." After such laudatory, though rather short biographies, Tchichikoff
perceived that it would be useless to mention any other of the dignitaries of
Smolensk, and then only he recollected that Sobakevitch was not in the habit of
having a good opinion of any one. "Come, my darling, let us now go to dinner,"
said the worthy spouse, Lady Sobakevitch, to her husband. "Allow me to invite
you to dinner," said Sobakevitch. After saying which he advanced towards a
table, upon which an introductory meal had been placed; the host and his guest
each drank, as is customary, a small glass of brandy, and had a bit of salt
fish, or some such appetite-stimulating foretastes, and in doing thus, they but
did what is customary in every town and village throughout the vast Russian
Empire; thus excited and prepared, they entered the dining-room, into which they
followed the hostess, who led them on like a goose her goslings. A small table
was laid for four persons. The fourth place was soon occupied, but it was
difficult to say affirmatively by whom, whether that person was a lady or a
girl, relation, a guest or friend living in the house; she was not adorned with
a cap, was about thirty years of age, and wore a variegated dress. "Your
cabbage-soup, my darling, is delicious to-day," said Sobakevitch to his wife,
whilst cutting and helping himself to a second enormous piece of stuffing, and
putting it into his soup. This stuffing, as it might be called, for want of a
better denomination in the English language, is a well-known dish in every
Russian household, and is always served together with the national sour cabbage-
soup; it is made of the ventricles, head, and feet of a sheep, and stuffed with
buck-wheat grits. "Such stuffing," he continued, turning towards Tchichikoff,
"you could not get to eat in town, where they have the habit of serving you with
Heaven knows what stuff!" "The Lord-Lieutenant's dinners, however, are not so
contemptible," said Tchichikoff. "Do you know how and of what stuff his dinners
are made? If you knew it, I'm sure you would not eat them." "I do not know how
they are prepared, and therefore cannot judge; but his pork-chops and boiled
flounders were delicious." "It seemed so to you. But I know well what they buy
in the market. Their cook, the impudent fellow, who seems to have learnt his art
in France, is capable of buying a cat, skinning it, roasting it, and serving it
up as a hare." "Fie! what an unpleasant allusion you make," said his wife. "And
why so, my dear? it is a fact, and I am sure they do that, if not even worse.
All that we would throw away in our country kitchen, the town people would put
in their soup, and find it even a delicacy--yes, a delicacy. Such is their
taste!" "You are always in the habit of talking such nonsense at table," said
his wife, with an evident air of displeasure. "Why, my heart," said Sobakevitch,
"if I was to do it myself, it would be a different thing; but I tell you
candidly that I will never eat any of their stuff. You may cover a frog with a
crust of sugar, and yet I would not take it into my mouth, nor what they call
oysters; I know what oysters are like." "Take some mutton," he continued,
addressing himself to Tchichikoff; "this is a shoulder of mutton with grits.
This is not a stew, as they make it in town kitchens, where they employ mutton
which has been offered for sale for three or four days in the market." Hereupon
Sobakevitch shook his head angrily, whilst adding:

"When I am to have some roast or boiled pork, let me have the whole pig on the
table; if some mutton, I want to look at the whole animal; if a goose, let me
have the whole bird. I would rather feed on ope dish, but feed to my heart's
content." Sobakevitch confirmed this principle by the deed: he placed the half
of the shoulder of mutton on his plate, ate it all, picked and licked over the
bones to the last. "Yes," thought Tchichikoff to himself, "his lips are as good
as his mouth." "It is not so with me," said Sobakevitch, whilst wiping his hands
and mouth on a napkin, "it is not with me as it is with a Pluschkin; he has
eight hundred serfs, but eats a worse dinner than any of my shepherds." "Who is
this Pluschkin?" inquired Tchichikoff. "A scoundrel," answered Sobakevitch. "His
avarice is so great that you cannot form an idea of it. A prisoner lives better
than him. He nearly starves all his peasants." "Really!" Tchichikoff exclaimed,
with evident interest; "and you believe that many of his serfs have died from
want?" "They die like flies." "Do they really! But allow me to ask you, how far
he lives from your estate?" "About five wersts." "About five wersts!"
Tchichikoff exclaimed again, and even felt a perceptible pulsation of the heart.
"But if I was to drive out of your court-yard, would it be on the right or on
the left-hand side?" "I would not advise you even to know the road to that dog's
kennel!" said Sobakevitch. "It is more excusable to visit some forbidden place,
than the house of such a man as Pluschkin." "Oh no, I did not ask that for any
particular purpose; but simply because I take an interest in knowing something
about places and positions of every description," was the reply of Tchichikoff.
After the shoulder of mutton followed some flounders, of which each was
considerably larger than the plates; then a turkey, nearly of the size of a
young calf, stuffed with all kinds of good things--with eggs, rice, liver, and a
variety of other condiments, which all had been pressed into the fowl's stomach.
With the turkey, the dinner had an end; but when they rose from the table,
Tchichikoff felt heavier by at least half a hundredweight. They entered the
reception-room, where some sweetmeats, such as pears, cherries, strawberries and
other berries, preserved in sugar or honey, were displayed on small china
plates; however, neither the guest nor the host could or would touch any. The
lady hostess left the room for the purpose of displaying some other kind upon
other small plates, in the hope that her guest would like to taste some of them.
Profiting by her momentary absence, Tchichikoff turned towards Sobakevitch, who
was lying in an arm-chair, and groaning after such a more than copious dinner,
and allowing some indistinct sounds to escape from his mouth, using the one hand
to make the sign of the cross, and holding the other before his mouth.
Tchichikoff addressed him in the following words:

"I should have liked to speak to you about a certain little business." "Here are
some more sweetmeats," said the hostess, returning with some few small plates;
"these are very rare fruits, and preserved in honey." "Very well, my darling,
we'll taste them later," said Sobakevitch. "You had better now return into your
own room, for Pavel Ivanovitch and myself are going to take off our coats and
rest ourselves a little." Lady Sobakevitch offered to send in some soft pillows,
but her husband opposed it, and answered her, "Never mind, we will take our rest
in these arm-chairs;" and the lady left the room. CHAPTER II. Sobakevitch bent
his head slightly on one side, prepared to hear what the little business
consisted in. Tchichikoff began to speak, but his argument was of a very obscure
nature; he alluded in very general terms to the whole Russian Empire, and
expressed himself in terms of great praise about its territorial extent, and
said, that even the ancient Roman Empire was far less in extent and power, and
that other nations are justly surprised at the magnitude of the largest Empire
in the world. Sobakevitch continued to listen, with his head bent on one side.
And that, according to existing statutes of this vast empire--the grandeur of
which has no equal--the census population, namely, those who have to pay a
capitation tax, though hundreds and thousands of them have already, since then;
terminated their worldly existence, remain still upon the lists, and are taxed
until the next census be taken--a period of fifty years--on a _par_ with the
living; although, and it must not be forgotten, that, as a medium of
equalization, the new-born population within the space of these fifty years is
not liable to any taxation before the next census be taken again; and this was
done for the purpose of not over-burthening the imperial administrations with
too many difficult and tedious regulations, but principally to avoid as far as
possible any additional complication of the already over-complicated mechanism
of the imperial administrations. Sobakevitch still listened with his head bent
on one side. And, that notwithstanding the justice and efficiency of this
measure, it yet presented but too numerous instances of heavy burthen and great
expense to the majority of landed proprietors, obliging them to pay the tax for
both their dead serfs as well as for their living subjects, and that he,
Tchichikoff, feeling a particular and personal regard for him, Sobakevitch, was
willing to undertake the payment of this burthensome capitation tax for the
dead, in consequence of his unfeigned esteem and friendship for him. As regards
the principal objects themselves, Tchichikoff expressed himself very carefully
indeed; in alluding to them, he never called them dead serfs, but not existing,
poor souls. During the whole period of Tchichikoff's speech, Sobakevitch had
continued to listen silently as before, with his head slightly inclined on one
side, and not even once was there the slightest change in his countenance, or a
different expression visible in his face. It seemed as if this body had no soul,
or as if it was not at all where it ought to have been; like an indefatigable
miser, he seemed to have hidden it in some secret corner, and covered with such
an impenetrable shell, that whatever battered upon its surface could not stir or
move the kernel within. "And thus," said Tchichikoff, awaiting a reply with some
degree of anxious expectation. "You want some dead serfs?" demanded Sobakevitch,
simply, without the slightest emotion or surprise, as if the question was about
bread, salt, or meat. "Yes," answered Tchichikoff; and again he softened down
the expression, adding, "the non existing ones." "I can let you have some; why
not?" said Sobakevitch. "And, since you have some, I have no doubt you will be
glad to get rid of them?" "With pleasure; I am ready to sell them," said
Sobakevitch, whilst slightly raising his head, for he began to suspect that the
purchaser would undoubtedly know how to derive an advantage from his
speculation. "The devil!" thought Tchichikoff to himself, "this man wants to
sell them before I have made him an offer to purchase any!" and he then said
aloud: "And what would your price he? although I must confess that the objects
are such, that it is rather strange to speak of a price." "Well then, and in
order not to ask a high price from you, I will fix them at a hundred roubles
a-piece," said Sobakevitch. "A hundred roubles!" exclaimed Tchichikoff, opening
his mouth widely, and looking him straight into the eyes, not knowing whether he
had heard rightly, or whether Sobakevitch's tongue, prompted by his heavy
intelligence, had tripped, and pronounced accidentally one word for another.
"Well, is that too dear for you?" articulated Sobakevitch; and then he added:
"But allow me to ask, what would your price be?" "My price! We have, no doubt,
misunderstood one another; we seem to have forgotten what our subject is. As far
as I am concerned, and laying my hand upon my heart, one rouble would be the
fairest price I could offer you." "Halloa! what a ridiculous price, to be sure,
one rouble!" "Why, according to my judgment, and as I think, I could not give
more." "But remember, I do not sell you any cat's-paws." "However, you must
agree; they are not any real men." "That is your opinion; but go and find me
such a fool, who would agree to sell you a census serf for a single rouble."
"But allow me to ask you, why do you call them census serfs? They are dead long
since, nothing remains of them but an incomprehensible sound in their
appellation. However, in order to avoid the trouble of entering more
particularly in a discussion on abstract matters, I am ready to offer you one
rouble and a half, but more I really could not." "You ought to be ashamed to
offer me such a price! You like to drive a bargain; well then, tell me your real
price." "I really cannot offer you more, my dear Michael Semenovitch, believe
me, on my honour, I cannot. What cannot be done that might be done?' said
Tchichikoff; yet, notwithstanding, he made an addition of half a rouble. "Why
are you so niggardly?" said Sobakevitch; "it is really not dear. Another
scoundrel would cheat you; he would not sell you real serfs like I do, but some
worthless stuff; all mine are like green hazel-nuts, all picked men; and if they
are not artizans by profession, still they are strong, healthy, and fit for
everything. Just let us examine them a little. There is, for an example, my
former cart-maker, Micheeff; he never worked at anything less than a spring-
cart. And, if you please, not such workmanship as they sell you at Moscow, which
lasts for an hour, and not longer; oh no, his work was of first-rate durability,
and besides, he used to do the carving and polishing work as well." Tchichikoff
opened his mouth, with the intention of making the observation, that the peasant
Micheeff, the spring-cart maker, had already left this world for some time; but
Sobakevitch entered suddenly, as the phrase goes, with spirit into the nature of
the subject, Heaven only knows whence he derived his power of language and
vigour of expression; however, he continued:

"And my Stephan, the joiner! I'd wager my head, that you cannot find me another
peasant like he was. He was a regular Hercules! If he had served in the guards,
he would have been one of the finest soldiers in the regiment, he was above
seven feet high!" Tchichikoff was again on the point of making the observation,
that Stephan had also departed this world; but Sobakevitch, as it appeared, was
carried away by his subject, his flow of language was not easily to be stopped,
now was the time to listen to him. "Milushkin, the potter, was capable of
putting you a stove in any part of the house. Again, Maxim Teliatnikoff, the
shoemaker; whatever he pierced with his awl, became a pair of boots, and
whatever boots he made, for such I paid him the compliment of a thank you. And
Germei Sorokopleokin! I can assure you that this fellow alone was worth all the
others, he used to hawk about in Moscow, and paid me an annual quit-rent of five
hundred roubles. Such were the people, and far from such stuff as you might buy
from a fellow like Pluschkin." "But allow me to observe," Tchichikoff at last
said, quite bewildered by such an abundance of words, to which there promised
now to be no end, "why do you enumerate all their former professions? all these
qualities are of no use to them or others now, because all these people are
dead, at this time being." "Oh, yes, to be sure, they are dead," said
Sobakevitch, as if considering and recollecting suddenly, that they were in
reality all dead and gone, and then he added, "however, I must observe, what are
the people now reckoned as living? yes, what are these people? flies, but not
men!" "But for all that they exist, and that is a point of imagination." "Oh no,
not at all a point of imagination! I will describe to you what a fellow my
Micheeff was, and I am sure you will not be able to find many more like him; he
was of such a size, that he could not have entered this room, and that is no
point of imagination! And in his shoulders, he possessed such power as you will
rarely meet with in a horse; I am therefore curious to know where you could find
such another point of imagination?" "No, really, I could not offer you any more
than two roubles," Tchichikoff said again. "Very well, then, and in order to be
agreeable to you, and that you might not pretend that I demanded too high a
price, and that I would not oblige you, you shall have them at seventy-five
roubles each dead serf, but all in bank notes, and I really do it all out of
friendship for you." "Does he really take me for a fool," thought Tchichikoff to
himself, and then added aloud: "All this seems very strange to me; it would
appear that we are playing a comedy, else I really could not explain how--you
seem to be a man of sound judgment, you can pretend to a superior education,
don't you therefore see and understand, that the object in question is simply,
phu, phu! what is it really worth? who could make use of it?" "But you wish to
purchase them, I think it therefore obvious that you want them." When
Tchichikoff heard this, he bit his lips, and could not find an answer. He began
to mutter something about family connexions and household circumstances, but
Sobakevitch interrupted him, and said simply:

"I do not want to know anything about your circumstances, I never mix in family
concerns, all that is your own affair. You stand in want of serfs, I am ready to
sell some, and I may add, you will be dissatisfied with yourself if you don't
buy them of me." "Well then, two roubles," said Tchichikoff. "What a curious man
you are; you seem to have fixed upon two, and now you cannot get off them. Offer
me your last price." "May the devil take him," thought Tchichikoff to himself,
"I will give him half a rouble more, and make the proverb true, for the dog to
buy nuts with! "Very well then, I offer you half a rouble more." "Now then, I
will also tell you my last word; fifty roubles I really it is a loss to me, you
will not buy them cheaper anywhere, especially such excellent peasants as they
were!" "What a fist that man is to be sure," said Tchichikoff to himself, and
then he continued aloud with a slight degree of anger:

"Really, I must confess, it was ridiculous to treat the matter as serious,
because in many another place I could get dead serfs for nothing. Many a one
would be extremely glad to give them to me, and thus get rid of them as soon as
possible. A fool would he be indeed, who after my offer would still persist to
keep them and continue to pay the capitation tax." "But do you know also, that
purchases of this description--I say this between ourselves, and in good
friendship--are not always safe and practicable; and if I, or any one else was
to mention them to a third party, such a person could get himself into great
difficulties, and expose himself to lose all confidence for the future, as
regards trust in contracts or any other business transactions." "Oh, the rascal,
that is what he is aiming at," thought Tchichikoff, and here he spoke with an
air of great unconcern, "as you like, my dear Sir, I wish to buy them, not for
any particular purpose, as you seem to suppose, but simply from a fancy, an
inclination of my own. If you won't accept two roubles and a half then, fare you
well!" "I shall not be able to confuse him: he is obstinate," thought
Sobakevitch. "Heaven be with you! give me thirty and take them all!" "No, I
perceive you don't wish to sell them. Farewell!" "Stop, stop! wait a little!"
exclaimed Sobakevitch, holding him by the hand, and treading upon his feet,
because our hero had forgotten to take care of himself, and as a punishment for
it, he was obliged to limp upon one leg. "I beg your pardon! It seems I have
hurt you. Pray be seated here. I beg your pardon once more." Hereupon he made
him sit down again and rather cleverly too, as a bear would do who has been
already taught to perform some evolution. "Really, I think I am only losing my
time; besides I am in a hurry." "Pray sit down, if but for a moment. I will tell
you immediately something very pleasant." Hereupon, Sobakevitch seated himself
quite close to Tchichikoff, and whispered into his ear, as if a secret:

"Will you make it a quarter?" "That is to say, twenty-five roubles. No, no, no,
I will not even give you a quarter of a quarter. I will not give you an
additional copek." Sobakevitch remained silent; Tchichikoff did the same. This
silence lasted for about two minutes. The Grecian hero Kolokotroni looked very
seriously from his frame on the wall upon the bargaining parties below. "What
will really be your last price?" said Sobakevitch at last. "Two roubles and a
half." "Really a human soul seemed to have with you no greater value than a
dried beetroot. Give me at least three roubles." "I cannot." "Well! what am I to
do with you? You shall have them. It is a loss to me, and no mistake; but such
is my doggish nature, I could never refuse to be agreeable to my fellow-
creatures. But I think I am right in saying that it will be requisite to draw up
a contract of sale for the lawful settlement of the bargain." "Most certainly."
"In that case, I shall have to go to Smolensk," said Sobakevitch. Thus then the
bargain for Sobakevitch's dead serfs was concluded. They agreed to meet the next
day in town, and to settle all the formalities of the contract of sale at their
first meeting there. Tchichikoff now demanded a list of all the dead serfs that
were to become his property. To this request Sobakevitch agreed willingly, and
sat down immediately at his writing-desk, and wrote down not only the names of
every one but also their laudable qualifications. "The note is ready,"
Sobakevitch soon said as he turned round. "Ready? Allow me to look at it."
Tchichikoff took the paper in his hand, and whilst running his eyes over it, he
was surprised to behold its neatness and accuracy; not only were profession,
name, age and family estate minutely noted down, but there was even a special
column in which particular annotations had been made as regarded the degree of
morality and conduct of his deceased serfs; in a word, it was a real pleasure to
look at the document. "Now I hope you will have no objection to pay me a god-
penny," said Sobakevitch. "Why should I give you anything on account? You shall
receive the whole amount at once, on our first meeting in town." "You well know
that such is the custom with us in the country," replied Sobakevitch. "I really
do not know how I am to manage that, for I have not much money about me.
However, here is a ten-rouble note." "What are ten roubles? Give me at least
fifty." Tchichikoff wanted to make him believe that he could not spare any more
for the present; but Sobakevitch insisted so positively that he had some more
money about him, that he could not help producing another bank-note, and saying:

"Very well, then, since you insist upon having some more, here are fifteen more,
which makes it altogether twenty-five roubles. But allow me now to trouble you
for a receipt." "What do you want a receipt for?" "You know well it is better to
have a receipt for the payment of money. Our hours of existence are uncertain--
something might happen." "Very well, let me have the money." "Why should you
have the money first? I hold the notes here in my hand. As soon as you will have
written the receipt, in that same moment you may have the money." "Pardon me;
how am I to write out a receipt? I must first see the money." Tchichikoff
allowed the bank-notes to be taken from his hand, and Sobakevitch being now in
possession of them, approached the table and covering them with his left hand,
began to write out with his right the receipt upon a small piece of paper, that
he had received an account of twenty-five roubles in imperial bank-notes for a
number of serfs sold by him to Pavel Ivanovitch Tchichikoff. After having
written and signed the receipt, he once more examined the bank-notes. "This note
is a rather old one," remarked he, slowly, whilst carefully examining one of
them against the light; "a little torn also. However, we must not look upon
these trifles when we deal with friends." "Oh! you fist, you fist!" thought
Tchichikoff to himself, "and a beast besides." "By the bye, would you perhaps
like to have some of my females?" "No, I am very much obliged to you for the
offer all the same." "I should not have asked a high price; out of regard for
you, I would not charge more than a rouble a-piece." "No, I do not stand in want
of any of the female sex." "Well, if you cannot make any use of them, then it is
useless to speak another word-about them. It is impossible to dispute on matter
of colour and taste. 'The one likes the pope, the other his wife,' as our
proverb says." "Oh, I nearly forgot to ask you to keep this little transaction a
secret between ourselves," said Tchichikoff in taking leave. "Oh yes, this is
perfectly understood. It is useless to mix a third in this matter; that which
happens by common consent between intimate friends, must remain in their
friendship. Farewell! I was glad to see you. Do not forget me in future. If you
should have an hour to spare, come and dine and pass a little time with us. It
might again happen that we could be agreeable one to another." "Don't you
believe it!" thought Tchichikoff to himself, whilst taking his seat in the
britchka. "He has charged me two roubles and a half for each of his dead serfs!
the man is the devil's own fist!" When the britchka had left the court-yard of
the house, Tchichikoff turned round to cast a last glance around him, and in
looking back, he saw that Sobakevitch still stood upon the door-step of his
house, and, as it seemed, was looking out to see what turning his guest was
about to take. "The fist, he is still on the same spot," murmured Tchichikoff
between his teeth, and ordered Selifan, who had just turned in the direction of
the village, to drive his carriage in such a manner that they should not be seen
from the gentleman's house. He intended calling at Pluschkin's, whose serfs,
according to the words of Sobakevitch were dying like flies, but he did not wish
that Sobakevitch should know about it. When the britchka had passed the last
house in the village, he hailed the first peasant whom he happened to see, and
who was carrying a large log of wood upon his shoulders, like an indefatigable
ant towards his dwelling, and addressed him thus:

"Halloa, my bearded man! how can I drive to Pluschkin's estate, without passing
your master's house?" The mouzhik seemed 'obviously embarrassed at the question.
"Well, don't you know?" "No, your glory, I don't." "Eh, what a fellow you are!
And with all that you wear grey hair and beard! don't you know the miser
Pluschkin, who has the reputation of starving his peasants?" "Ah, you mean the
ragged one!" exclaimed the peasant. He then added another stronger surname, but
as it is an expression not used in society, we will omit it, though it was a
strong and harmonizing word with the first surname of the miser. It might be
easily imagined that the second surname must have been a very pointed one
indeed, for although the peasant had passed on, and the britchka had been long
out of sight from the village, Tchichikoff was still smiling at the word whilst
sitting in his britchka. CHAPTER III. On driving up to the house, Tchichikoff
soon perceived a human figure, who began to converse with the peasant who had
just arrived with his telega. For a long while he could not discover to what sex
this figure belonged; whether it was an old woman or a mouzhik. The dress was
absolutely shapeless, but nevertheless very much like a female's garb, the head-
dress was a kind of colpack, as worn by the aged village crones, yet the voice
seemed to him to be too loud for a woman's. "Oh,'tis an old woman!" he thought
for a moment to himself, and immediately added: "oh, no. To be sure,'tis a
woman," he said at last, after a closer examination. The figure, on its side,
also looked very attentively at Tchichikoff. A guest or a stranger seemed to be
to it a wonderful apparition, because it not only looked at him alone, but also
at Selifan and the horses, beginning from their tails, and ending with their
heads. To judge by the keys which were hanging down its left side by a broad
belt, and because it was scolding the poor peasant of the cart in a very loud
voice, Tchichikoff came to the conclusion that this figure was obviously the
housekeeper. "Halloa, old mother," said he, as he got out of his britchka,
"where is your master?" "Not at home," the housekeeper interrupted him, not
waiting even for the question to be finished, but a moment later she added: "and
what do you want?" "I have some business with him." "Will you then walk into
this room," said the housekeeper, turning round and showing him her back covered
all over with flour, and the lower portion of her garb torn beneath. He entered
a large and dark passage, the air in which was as cold and damp as in a cellar.
From the passage he emerged into a small room, also very dark, scarcely
enlivened by a glimpse of light, which shone through a large crevice in the
lower portion of the door opposite. On opening this broken door before him, he
at last entered an apartment in which real daylight greeted him, though the
disorder which prevailed in it surprised him considerably. It seemed as if the
other portions of the house were undergoing a regular scrubbing, and that this
room had been chosen for the temporary reception of all the furniture. Upon one
of the large tables stood an old broken chair, and, next to it lay an old clock
with its silent pendulum, around which some spiders had already found time to
spin their cobwebs. There also leant against the wall an old-fashioned cupboard,
covered with old silver plate, decanters, glasses and china. Upon a large
writing table, inlaid with mother of pearl mosaic, which was broken out in many
places, leaving but the yellow spots of the mastic behind, lay a variety of
objects; a heap of written small slips of papers, upon which lay a marble
letter-weight with a handle in the shape of an egg on it, an ancient looking
book, bound in rough Russian leather with red edges, a lemon, dried and withered
away to the size of a walnut, a piece of a broken arm-chair, a wine glass
containing a dark fluid with three dead flies in it, a few letters, some
sealing-wax, a small dirty rag, picked up somewhere on the road, two quills,
besmeared all over with ink, which had dried upon them long since, a tooth-
brush, which had become quite yellow from age and use, and with which the owner
seemed to have been in the habit of cleaning his teeth ever since the French
invasion of 1812. Whilst Tchichikoff was still looking around him at the strange
arrangement of this apartment, the same housekeeper entered again, through a
small side door, which he had seen on his arrival in the court-yard. But now
this person appeared to him rather a steward than a female housekeeper: because
a woman is not likely to use a razor upon her face, and this person seemed to
have the habit of shaving, though it appeared to be done but occasionally,
because the whole of the lower portion of her face looked rather like a
scrubbing-brush for a horse's skin made of strong iron wire. Tchichikoff giving
his face an expression of inquisitiveness, now looked anxiously forward,
awaiting the steward to be the first speaker. The steward, in his turn, seemed
also determined to await what Tchichikoff had to say in explanation of his
presence. At last, however, our hero getting tired of this unpleasant suspense
and silence, resolved to address the strange-looking person before him. "Well,
where is your master? is he at home?" "He is here," said the steward. "Where is
he?" repeated Tchichikoff. "Well, my good Sir, you are perhaps shortsighted,"
said the steward. "I am the master whom you wish to see." Hereupon our hero
could not help stepping back a few paces and looking steadfastly at the man
before him. It had happened to him to meet with people of all bodily
descriptions, even with such persons as most likely our courteous reader and
ourselves never met; but such a man as he now saw before him he had never met
with before. His face did not present any particularly striking features; it was
nearly like all faces of lean and old men; his chin projected to such an extent
that he was obliged to cover it with his pocket-handkerchief so as not to spit
upon it occasionally; his small eyes very far from being dimmed by age, on the
contrary, from under their heavy eyebrows they glittered like those of a mouse,
when that little animal comes forward from its hole and puts forth its little
snout to smell about if there is any danger from a cat, or whether some naughty
boy has not laid a trap for it. His dress was much more characteristic and
remarkable. No investigation or expedient would have availed to discover of what
peculiar material his morning-gown had been patched together; the sleeves and
upper body of his dress were greased and besmeared to such a degree, that they
actually had the appearance if not exactly the peculiar smell of that celebrated
Russian leather called "jÃ¼chte," and which is commonly used among the lower
classes to make their boots of. From his back, four skirts hung loosely down
instead of two, and out of which the cotton wadding was profusely bursting
forth. There was also something tied round his neck, but it was impossible to
define whether it was a stocking, a garter, or a pair of braces; at all events,
it was not a neckerchief. In a word, if Tchichikoff had met this man thus
attired near the portal of a church, he would have undoubtedly tendered him a
few coppers, for be it said to the honour of our hero that he was of a
charitable disposition, and that he could seldom resist the temptation of giving
a copek to a beggar. But before him there now stood not a beggar, but a Russian
landlord of rank. A man who called more than a thousand human beings his own
serfs, and it would have also been difficult for any one to find many other
proprietors possessing such extensive granaries filled with such a variety and
quantity of com, flour, and meal--or to behold stores and warehouses like his,
stocked with equal quantities of linen, cloth, wool, in fleeces, and shorn from
the skin, smoked meats, dried fish, and other products of a fertile soil.
Pluschkin had been standing for some minutes without speaking a word, but
Tchichikoff was still unable to begin a conversation, for he was completely
disconcerted by the singular appearance of the man before him, as well as by
everything that surrounded him in the room. For a long time he could not imagine
in what terms to explain the object of his visit. He was several times on the
point of expressing himself in the following terms: that, having heard the
praise of his benevolence and the rare qualities of his heart, he felt it to be
his duty to come and pay his personal tribute at the shrine of such great
virtues, but he suddenly bethought himself, and felt that this would be saying
too much. Casting another hasty glance upon everything in the room, he came to
the conclusion, that the words benefactor and rare qualities of the heart, might
be successfully replaced by the following terms: economy and order; after this
observation, he adapted his address in consequence and spoke thus:--

"That he had heard much to the advantage of his system of economy and the wise
administration of his vast estates, and that he therefore felt it his duty to
seek his acquaintance and acknowledge personally his profound esteem for a man
of such great reputation." We must confess, that some more plausible reason
might have been brought forward, however; nothing better suggested itself to the
mind of our hero at that particular moment. To this complimentary address,
Pluschkin murmured something in reply between his lips, because he had no teeth;
what the exact words were it is impossible for us to tell, very likely something
to the following effect: "The devil take you and your esteem!" But, as
hospitality is still in fashion with us, so much in fashion indeed, that even a
miser dare not offend its laws and privileges, therefore the old niggard added
immediately, and a little more audibly, "I pray you, Sir, be seated!" "It is
long since I have received company," said he, "and I must candidly confess I see
no advantage in welcoming idle visitors. Some foolish people have introduced the
fashion of driving about from one estate to the other, and thus neglect their
own households--and if they happen to arrive, you have even to feed their horses
and men as well! I have already dined some hours since, and my kitchen is so
very low, badly constructed, and the chimney is crumbling, that, were I to order
some fire again I might easily set the whole house on fire." "Oh, oh, is that
it!" thought Tchichikoff to himself, "it is well I made a good dinner at
Sobakevitch's house, on the cabbage and shoulder of mutton." "And a truss of hay
and some bushels of oats are no joke in these hard times in any household!"
continued Pluschkin, "and really, the more I think of it the more absurd this
evil custom seems to me. I have but a small estate, my peasants are idle and do
not like to work, but think only how to get into the dram-shop--really it is
frightful to contemplate, one might easily go begging." "However, I have been
told," calmly observed Tchichikoff, "that you call more than a thousand serfs
your own." "And who has told you that? My dear Sir, you ought to have spit into
the face of that person who told you this! he is a fool and wants to pass a joke
upon you. All proclaim me to be the possessor of a thousand souls, but if they
were to number them they would really find none. During the last three years the
fever has carried off numbers of my best and healthiest peasants." "Is it
possible! and have you indeed lost many?" exclaimed Tchichikoff, with visible
interest. "Yes, the fever has carried off a great many." "But allow me to
inquire how many in number?" "About eighty souls." "No, is it really so many?"
"My good Sir, I have no interest to hide the truth." "Allow me to ask you one
more question. I suppose you estimate the number of your dead serfs to be
eighty, since you handed in your last census?" "If that was the case, I should
thank heaven for not having lost more," said Pluschkin, "no, my good Sir, since
I sent my last census to government, and paid my capitation tax, I have lost
more than one hundred and twenty serfs!" "Really, one hundred and twenty
peasants!" exclaimed again Tchichikoff loudly, and even opened his mouth more
than usual, in consequence of his astonishment. "Good Sir, I am too old to tell
a falsehood. I am fast advancing to my fourth score," said Pluschkin. He seemed
even a little offended at the stranger's apparently joyful exclamation.
Tchichikoff also observed that he had gone too far in not observing due
compassion with that which another person considers a grievous loss; and,
therefore, after heaving a deep sigh, he added that he felt the greatest
commiseration for him. "'Tis all very fine talking about commiseration, but with
all that you cannot put it in your pocket," replied Pluschkin. "I may quote as
an example a certain colonel, who lives on an estate next to mine, and who has
come heaven knows wherefrom! he says that he is a relation of mine; calls me his
uncle, his dear grand uncle! and even kisses my hands; but when he begins to
speak of his commiseration, he raises such a howling, that I do not know how to
save my ears. He has a face all on fire; and with all that appearance pretends
to like meagre fare and buck-wheat grits. No doubt that young fellow spent all
his money when he served in the army, or some ballet-girl girl has cheated him
out of it; and that I must suppose makes him now so full of commiseration!"
Tchichikoff endeavoured to explain to the old man, that his commiseration was
quite of a different nature from that of the colonel, and that he was ready to
prove it, not with empty words, but with tangible facts; and without any further
arguments, he proceeded to the business at once, and informed the old miser of
his readiness to undertake the payment of the capitation tax for all such of his
peasants as had died since the last census, victims of a contagious fever. This
proposal seemed perfectly to bewilder Pluschkin. He opened his eyes wildly,
looked for a long time steadfastly into the face of the speaker, and at last put
the following question to him:

"Pardon me, my good Sir, but have you perhaps also served in the army?" "No,"
answered Tchichikoff, with a pleasing air of artfulness, "I have served in the
civil ranks." "Oh! a civilian?" repeated Pluschkin, and began to move his lips,
as if he was eating something. "But how do you mean it? This offer which you
make to me, would be a positive expense to yourself?" "To be agreeable to you, I
am even willing to be a loser." "Oh, my good Sir! oh, you are my benefactor!"
exclaimed Pluschkin, so much overcome with joy, that he did not observe that a
large drop of fluid snuff had made its appearance on the point of his nose, and
that whilst raising his arms to accompany his exclamations he opened his
morning-gown, and thus displayed an under-dress not at all fit for description.
"What a consolation you have brought me! oh, good Heaven! oh, my holy saints!--"
and more than this Pluschkin was incapable of articulating. But a minute had
scarcely elapsed, since this joy had shown itself so suddenly upon the mummy-
like face of the old man, when it again as suddenly disappeared from his
features, and his face again assumed its usual expression of care and anxiety.
He recovered even as far again his self-possession as to wipe his nose, and
rolling his handkerchief into a ball, he began to pass it across his lips, to
and fro. "With your permission, and without wishing to offend you in the least,
will you allow me to ask you, whether you will agree to undertake to pay the tax
annually till the next census? and the money for it, would you like to pay it to
me, or at once into the imperial treasury?" "I would suggest that we should come
to the following arrangement: we will draw up a contract of sale, in which we
will agree that all the hundred-and-twenty serfs are alive, and that you have
sold them to me." "Oh, by a contract of sale," said Pluschkin, musingly, and
again munching his lips. "But you see, my dear Sir, a contract of sale is an
expense. And the imperial _employÃ©s_ are so very impudent indeed! Formerly you
could oblige them to do their duty by presenting them with a rouble and a sack
of flour, but now-a-day one is obliged to send them nearly a cart-load of grits
and a ten rouble note besides, there is such a love for money now prevalent
among them. I am quite surprised how it is that nobody else has paid any
attention to this real nuisance. Some one ought to have come forward and spoken
words of exhortation and salvation to those rogues! Words of exhortation pierce
every heart. Whatever people may say, I am of opinion that no sinner can resist
words of salvation." "I should say, you could resist them!" thought Tchichikoff
to himself, and he added aloud, that he was ready--out of pure esteem for the
old man--to pay the expense of the contract of sale out of his own pocket. On
hearing this offer made to him, that even the expenses of the contract of sale
would not be an expense to him, Pluschkin came to the conclusion that his
strange guest must be completely deranged, and that he only pretended he had
been in the civil service of his country, and that there could be no doubt that
he had served as an officer in the army, and had been in the habit of courting
actresses and ballet-girls. Notwithstanding this opinion, he could impossibly
hide his satisfaction, and wished his guest and his children and grandchildren
all the blessings of Providence, without asking him previously whether he was
married, and whether he had any family. He then hurried towards the window, and
thumping with his bony fingers on the glass, he shouted out:

"Holloa, Proschka." In a minute later, hurried footsteps were heard in the
passage, and soon after behind the door of the apartment in which our hero and
his host were; but the person outside continued for some time making a fearful
noise with his boots, at last the door was opened and Proschka entered. He was a
boy of about thirteen years of age; the boots which he wore were so large, that
each step which he made forwards threatened to leave his boots behind. Why the
boy, Proschka, wore such a large pair of boots we can explain immediately;
Pluschkin kept for the whole of his retinue--however many--but one pair of
boots, which were always to be left behind the door in the passage. Every
servant who was called by his master was obliged to skip bare-footed across the
court-yard, but as soon as he entered the long and dark passage leading to his
lord's apartment he was obliged to step into the boots, and then only allowed to
enter the room of his master. In leaving the chamber, he had to strip himself of
those boots, and return to his own quarters on his natural soles. If any one had
happened to have been standing at the window of Pluschkin's mansion--especially
on a freezing autumn morning--he would have witnessed the skipping and jumping
of the whole of his domestic servants, who made such evolutions as can scarcely
be equalled by even the cleverest clown or ballet dancer. "But, do me the
favour, my good Sir, to look at this boy's face!" said Pluschkin to Tchichikoff,
whilst pointing to the face of his servant boy, Proschka, "he seems as stupid as
a log of wood, but try only to leave anything lying loose, in a minute he is
sure to steal it! Now then, stupid boy, what have you come here for?" After
having said this he remained silent a few moments, which was answered by a
silence from Proschka as well. "Heat the samovar, do you hear me? and then give
this key to Mavra, and tell her to go into the pantry; there she will find a
large fish biscuit--given to me by Lady Alexander Stepanovna--tell her to serve
this cake with the tea!" After saying this, he could not help looking with an
air of suspicion even upon Tchichikoff. Such traits of unusual generosity began
to appear to him quite impossible, and he thought to himself:--

"The devil knows him and where he comes from; he might be a man fond of
boasting, like all those military spendthrifts; he will humbug me just to have
something to boast about, drink my tea, eat my cake, and then say farewell!"
After reasoning thus with himself, he came to the conclusion that it would be
better to be careful and test the honesty of his strange guest, and he therefore
proposed that it would be a good thing to proceed at once to the drawing up of
the contract of sale, because man was mortal; to-day alive, and to-morrow heaven
knows where. CHAPTER IV. Tchichikoff assured the old miser of his readiness to
conclude the contract that very minute, and only demanded a list of all the
peasants that were now to become his property. This readiness considerably
tranquillized Pluschkin. It was obvious that he was trying to remember or do
something, and really, after a few moments of reflection and hesitation, he
approached his cupboard, produced a bunch of keys, and opened the glass doors of
it, he was a considerable time in removing a number of decanters, wine glasses,
and cups, and at last exclaimed: "It is impossible for me to find it now, I had
some sweet liquors of cream, provided my servants have not drunk it! they are so
disobedient! Ah, should this perhaps be it?" Tchichikoff now beheld a small
decanter in his hands, which was thickly covered by a coat of dust. "This was
distilled by my late and much lamented wife," continued Pluschkin; "my roguish
housekeeper seems to have completely mislaid it, and has not even put the cork
in, the negligent old wretch! Cobwebs, spiders, and dies have fallen into the
bottle, however, I have removed them, and will now pour out some for you, a nice
and clean glass full." But Tchichikoff respectfully declined to taste any of
such liquor, saying that he had already been eating and drinking. "You have
already been eating and drinking;" said Pluschkin. "Yes, truly, a well-bred man
may be recognised by the smallest trifles; he does not eat, and yet is fed; but
when some of those hungry and dishonest run-abouts come, you may feed them as
long as you like. The Captain for instance--who visits me by far too often;
'dear uncle,' he is accustomed to say, 'pray let me have first something to
eat!' and after all, I am as dear an uncle to him as he is a nephew to me. I
have not the least doubt, but the young fellow has nothing to eat at home, and
of course keeps annoying me, and running about everywhere. But, by the bye, I
think you will require a list of all these idlers? To be sure, whenever one of
them died, I made it a point to note down his name, so as to have them ready for
being scratched off at the approaching census." Pluschkin while saying this, put
on a pair of wretched spectacles, and began to stir about in a heap of papers.
In untying various packages, he treated his guest to such a cloud of dust, that
he made him sneeze. At last he produced a slip of paper, written upon on every
available space. The names of the dead serfs covered it as thickly as mushrooms.
There were Christian and family names of every kind and length, such as
Ponomareff, Pimenoff, Semenoff, and Panteleimonoff, and even the long name of
Gregory Dogeschainedogedish; in all more than a hundred-and-twenty different
names. Tchichikoff smiled with inward satisfaction at the sight of such a
number. Securing this curious document, and putting it in his pocket, he made
the observation to Pluschkin, that he would have to come to town in order to
conclude, in a legal manner, the contract of sale of these dead serfs. "Go to
town, but how? how am I to leave my house? my servants are one and all either
thieves or scoundrels, in a day they would be capable of robbing me so well,
that on my return I should not be able even to find a nail to bang my coat
upon." "In that case, you have perhaps a friend in town?" "Yes, to be sure, a
friend, but to whom? All my acquaintances have died, or have forgotten me; but
stop, my good Sir! I now remember one, how should I not have a friend, to be
sure I have one!" exclaimed the old man suddenly. "I am on friendly terms with
the President, he used to visit me often in bygone years, how should I not know
him, or he me! we were like wheels of the same carriage, always together, up to
any mischief! how should we not know one another? he is my best friend! would
you advise me to entrust him with this business?" "I advise you most certainly
to do so," replied Tchichikoff. "Then I will write to him, because he is a very
intimate friend of mine! indeed, now I remember it, our friendship dates from
our childhood, we were intimate school-fellows." And suddenly over this wooden
parchment-like face a warm flush passed, but it did not express feelings of a
pleasant recollection, no, only something like a faint shadow of real feeling,
an apparition similar to the unexpected appearance of a drowning man above the
surface of the water, who causes a shout of joy among the crowd gathered along
the shores. But unavailingly do his suddenly rejoiced brothers and sisters throw
out cords and ropes to his assistance, hoping to see once more his head, or
outstretched hands, trying to seize it--alas! it was his last re-appearance. All
is silent, and the now silent and smooth element becomes but more ominous and
terrifying. Something analogous was also visible in the expression of
Pluschkin's features, after a momentary flush of sensibility, the expression of
his face became but more unfeeling and repulsive. "There was a sheet of note-
paper lying on the table," he said, "but I wonder what has become of it; you
have no idea how impudent my servants are!" Hereupon he began anxiously to look
about, under the table, upon the table, stirring about everything, but at last,
not being able to find it, he shouted as loud as he could:

"Mavra! halloa, Mavra!" Upon this call, a woman servant entered the room,
holding a plate in her hands, upon which lay the well-known Easter-cake of his
daughter Alexandra. The following conversation took place between them:

"You magpie! tell me immediately where you have put the sheet of note-paper,
that was lying here upon my table?" "Good Heavens, Sir, do not be alarmed, but I
really have not seen it, excepting a small piece with which you covered a wine-
glass the other day." "I see clearly by your eyes and countenance that it is you
who have surely taken it." "For what purpose should I have done so? It could
have been no use whatever to me, for I cannot read nor write." "Tis a falsehood,
you have taken it and carried it to your cousin, Karpuschka, the carpenter, I
know him to be a scribbler and of course you have given it to him." "That I have
not, and besides if my cousin wanted some paper, he has the means to buy it,-for
he is a good workman and can earn sufficient to pay for it. No, it is not he who
has your paper." "Mind what you are saying and doing, for on the day of judgment
the demons will torment you, yes it is with iron rods that they will scourge
you! you may depend upon it they will punish you for your wickedness in this
world!" "But why should they scourge me, when I never even touched your slip of
paper? I may, perhaps, like other women, have my faults, but I have never been
accused of theft before." "The demons are sure to scourge you, and say besides:
'that is what you deserve you wicked woman for betraying and deceiving your
lawful master, yes, it is with red-hot iron rods that they will torment you!'"
"And I shall proclaim my innocence;" added the poor woman crying, "I shall
invoke Heaven and declare that I did not touch or take any of your property. And
here it lies upon the table. You always scold and accuse us though we are
innocent!" Pluschkin now really beheld the note-paper before him, and for a
moment he stopped short, whilst chewing with his lips, then he added:

"Well, why are you so excited? what a talkative woman you are to be sure!
Scarcely have I spoken a word to you, when you are ready with ten answers! Go
and fetch me a light to seal my letters with. But no, stop, you are sure to lay
hold of a tallow candle, grease melts: it will be a loss; bring me a pine-
torch." Mavra left the room, Pluschkin seated himself in an arm-chair and taking
a pen up, he kept turning the sheet of note-paper for a considerable time in his
hand, thinking at the time, could it not be possible to save the half or a
portion of the paper, but at last he felt convinced that it was an
impossibility; he therefore dipped his pen into the ink-stand and into a mouldy
fluid, at the bottom of which there were numerous dead flies, he began to write;
his letters were very much like music-notes, he was obliged to stop at each pen
stroke, for his hand shook and trembled violently over the paper, and the
progress of his writing and increase of lines was very slow indeed, for he could
not help thinking and regretting, that much of the paper before him would have
to remain unwritten upon. And to such a degree of meanness and degradation could
a well-born man degenerate! undergo such a change! But is this like truth, like
reality? All approaches truth and reality, for a human being is liable to
undergo incredible changes. The youth of this day would start back horrified if
the portrait of his old age could be shown to him. Oh! gather on our way--as you
leave your downy pillow to start and enter into harsh and hardening manhood--
gather up all the tender impressions of human nature, do not leave them behind
you--do not pick them up later! Harsh and frightful is such old age when looming
in the future, for it indemnifies for nothing! The grave is more merciful, upon
a tombstone may be written: here lies a man! but you can read nothing upon the
cold, unfeeling features of pitiless age. "Do you perhaps know any one among
your friends--" said Pluschkin, whilst folding up his letter, "who might stand
in want of a few run-away serfs?" "Ah, you have even some run-away men?"
demanded Tchichikoff eagerly, but composing himself again quickly. "Yes,
unfortunately, I have some. My son-in-law has been hunting after them, but he
assured me, that he has lost the trace of them notwithstanding his diligence and
perseverance, however, he is a military man, accustomed to do business on
horseback, if he had taken the trouble to apply to the various courts and--"

"Pardon me for interrupting you, but how many are they in number?" "Well, as
near as I can guess about seventy." "No, is it possible?" "By Heavens, it is as
I tell you! With every new year I find that more and more of my men run away. My
people are one and all awful gluttons, from good living and easy tasks they are
apt to burst like the frog in the fable, whilst I have scarcely sufficient to
eat myself. Really, I should feel disposed to accept any reasonable offer for
them. Pray, speak to your friend about them: let us suppose he only recaptures
ten of them, and his trouble will be amply rewarded. And you must not forget to
tell him that our census serfs are worth five hundred silver roubles a-piece
everywhere." "No, my good old man, don't you believe it; this piece of news my
friend shall not even be allowed to dream of," thought Tchichikoff to himself;
and then he added aloud, "That it was a perfect impossibility to find such a
friend; that the trouble and expense of recapturing run-away serfs would exceed
by far their collective value; because it would be madness to apply to any court
of law for assistance, for it is well known that if a man enters a court of
justice in Russia, he generally has to leave, if not his own liberty behind him,
at least his property, without the exception of the very coat on his back; but
if he was really embarrassed for a little money, he would do himself pleasure by
proving him his sincere sympathy, and that he was ready to make an offer; but as
it was a mere trifle, it would be really idle even to mention a word about it."
"Pray, and how much could you offer me?" demanded Pluschkin, with the anxiety
and eagerness of a real Shylock, his hands trembling like quicksilver. "I could
afford to pay you at the rate of twenty-five copeks in silver for each of your
run-aways." "And how do you propose purchasing them--will you pay ready money?"
"Yes, I am prepared to pay immediately." "My good and dear Sir, pray don't be
hard with an old man; be generous and just; pay me at least forty copeks a
head." "Most estimable man!" exclaimed Tchichikoff, "I would not only have paid
you forty copeks, but even would have been glad to pay you five hundred roubles
for each run-away vagabond. It would have been a gratification to me to offer
you such a sum, because I see it plainly now, that you, my worthy and excellent
old Sir, are suffering from the effects of your own misplaced benevolence." "By
Heavens, it is so! By Heavens, you spoke the truth!" exclaimed Pluschkin,
bending down his head and shaking it sorrowfully. "All from benevolence!" "You
will agree with me, my excellent old man, that I at once knew how to appreciate
your character. And why should I, therefore, not give you five hundred roubles
for each of these serfs? but, the fact is, I am not possessed of a large
fortune; however, to be agreeable to you, I am ready to make an addition of five
copeks, so that, in this manner, every serf will cost me the round sum of thirty
silver copeks." "Make another effort, for the power lays in your hands; give me
but two copeks more above the thirty." "So I will, if you wish it, I'll give you
two copeks more. How many have you of those run-away rascals? You told me, I
believe, seventy in all?" "There are a few more. In all, they number seventy-
eight." "Seventy-eight! Let me see, seventy-eight and thirty-two copeks a head,
that makes--" Hereupon our hero only took one moment for consideration, and then
continued deliberately: "That makes a total of twenty-four roubles ninety-six
copeks." He was a clever arithmetician. After this clever calculation, he made
Pluschkin write out a receipt in form, and paid him the receipt in full upon the
table, which the other took up in both hands, and carried towards his desk, with
as much anxious precaution as if he was carrying some precious liquid, fearing
every moment lest he might spill some of it. When he had arrived before his
desk, he once more covered his money with an ardent look, and then he laid it as
carefully into one of his secret drawers, where, no doubt, it was destined to
lie buried until Father Carp and Father Policarp, two worthy popes of his
village, would come and have to bury the wretched man himself, to the
indescribable joy of his daughter and son-in-law, and perhaps, also, to to the
great satisfaction of the always hungry Captain, who had succeeded in
establishing a relationship with the old miser. After having hidden his
treasure, Pluschkin returned to his arm-chair and sat down; it seemed that he
now was completely at a loss of a subject for conversation. "Do you already
intend to leave me?" said he, as he happened to perceive a slight movement which
Tchichikoff made, and which was only for the purpose of taking his pocket-
handkerchief from his pocket. This question reminded our hero that really there
was no reason or inducement for him to stay any longer with the old miser. "Yes,
it is high time for me to depart," said he, whilst taking up his hat. "Won't you
really stay and take a cup of tea?" "No, thank you; I think we had better leave
it till the next time I have the pleasure of seeing you." "Why, I have given
orders for the tea-urn to be heated. For my own part, I must confess, I am not
at all partial to tea-drinking, like the rest of our countrymen; the beverage is
very dear, and besides, sugar has risen to a most unmerciful price. Froschka! I
don't want the samovar; take the cake back again to Mavra, mind you understand
me rightly; tell her to put it on the same shelf where she took it from; but no,
stop--leave it on the table; I think I shall take it back again myself."
"Farewell, then, my dear Sir, the Almighty bless and keep you. As for the letter
to the President, do not forget to give it him immediately on your return to
Smolensk, as well as my kindest regards. Yes, let my dear old friend read it; I
know he will be pleased to hear from me. How should he not recollect me? we used
to live together, like two wheels of the same carriage." After this, that
ancient apparition, the worn-out old miser, led his guest the same road back on
which he had entered his house, and saw him into the court-yard, and safe into
his carriage, but as soon as the britchka had passed the gates, he ordered them
to be closed immediately; he then made a turn of inspection around his extensive
premises, with the view of convincing himself that the watchmen were all on
their guard, for he had posted sentinels at every available corner; these poor
fellows kept thumping with a large wooden spoon against the bottom of small
empty casks, instead of upon iron plates. Being satisfied that every one was
doing his duty, he entered the kitchen, under the pretence that he came there to
convince himself that the food of his servants was good and eatable, and thus
tasting of everything, he stuffed himself with cabbage and porridge to his
heart's content; he then scolded them all, down to the scullery-maid, reproached
them with bad conduct, and, after having done this, he quietly returned to his
own room. When he found himself alone, he began to think how he could manage to
mark his sense of gratitude to his amiable guest for an act of such unheard-of
generosity. "I think I shall present him," thought he to himself, "with my
watch. It is a good one, a silver lever one, not one of those common Geneva or
pinchbeck watches. I remember it is rather a little out of repair; but what does
that matter? he can get it repaired himself. He seems a young man yet, and of
course he wants a watch--it will help to please his sweetheart. "But no," added
he, after musing for a while, "I think I shall leave him the watch as a legacy
after I am dead; then he will be sure to remember me." CHAPTER V.

Our hero, however, felt happy and in the best disposition of mind without the
old man's watch. For such an unexpected acquisition of stock was in his opinion
a most valuable gift, and he had really every difficulty in mastering his joy;
but then it was also one of the most advantageous speculations--though certainly
of an unheard-of nature--that he had ever made in his life. He got for a mere
nothing, not only dead, but even run-away serfs, in all more than two hundred
regular census slaves, and to him, whether dead or alive, most valuable beings.
As a matter of course, it must be acknowledged that whilst driving up to
Pluschkin's mansion, he had a secret presentiment that something unusual would
happen to him; but certainly he was far from guessing that such a brilliant
success would actually crown his anticipations. Twilight began to merge into
darkness of the evening, when the britchka approached the town. The crepuscule
was mingling with the dusk quicker and faster, and it seemed as if objects in
the distance were mixed up and in confusion. The red and white-coloured turnpike
gates seemed of an indefinable colour, very different from their usual gay
appearance; the mustachios of the sentinel on duty seemed to be on his forehead,
much above his eyes, as for his nose, it appeared as if he had none. The sudden
noise and the jolting of the wheels across the pavement were an undeniable proof
that the britchka had safely entered the gates of Smolensk. The britchka soon
after sustained a few more severe joltings and shakings, until at last it made a
regular jump as if into a hole; fortunately it stopped short before the gates of
the inn where Tchichikoff was met by his servant Petruschka, who, with one of
his hands was trying to keep together the skirts of his long surtout, not
wishing perhaps that they should be open and flying about, whilst, with the
other hand, he assisted his master to alight from the britchka. The head-waiter
had rushed forward to meet Tchichikoff. He held a candle in his hand and a
napkin thrown over his shoulder. It is impossible for us to tell whether
Petruschka was pleased or not to see his master returning safely home. However,
he exchanged a familiar glance with his friend Selifan, in consequence of which,
his usually sulky countenance for the nonce, seemed to undergo a change which
bore some slight approach to cheerfulness. "Your glory has been on a long
excursion this time," said the head-waiter politely, as he was showing him up-
stairs. "Yes, rather," answered Tchichikoff, when he had arrived at the landing
leading towards his room. "Well, and how are you?" "Thank heavens and your glory
for your kindness!" replied the head-waiter, bowing lowly in acknowledgment of
the condescension. "A cornet in the Lancers arrived last night, and has taken
number sixteen, the apartment next to that of your glory's." "Who? a cornet! of
what regiment?" "I really cannot inform your glory to what regiment he belongs,
but he comes from Rizan, has a splendid carriage and three beautiful horses."
"Very well, that will do; go and behave yourself well in future," said
Tchichikoff. But as he crossed the ante-room, he quickly turned up his nose, and
said to Petruschka, whilst hurrying along, "You ought at least to have opened
the windows, you careless fellow!" "I have had them opened, your glory," replied
Petruschka; but in saying this, he told a falsehood, and though his master knew
well enough that he was trying to impose upon him, he did not condescend to
waste another word about it. After the fatigues of his journey and adventures,
he felt exceedingly tired, and was anxious to retire. He ordered a very light
supper to be brought up, which consisted of a few thin slices of tender sucking-
pig, which he ate rather hastily, and then undressing himself quickly, he went
to bed immediately, and tucked himself well up in his blankets, and was soon
fast and sound asleep. He began to snore most wonderfully, and slept as soundly
as only those happy mortals sleep who do not suffer from the attacks of gout or
flies, nor from any superabundance of mental faculties. CHAPTER VI. Tchichikoff
was just awaking, and stretching out his hands and legs like a man preparing for
gymnastics, he also began to be aware that he had slept uncommonly well. After
lying for about two minutes longer thus outstretched upon his back, he suddenly
smacked his fingers in the air, for he at once distinctly remembered, and with a
face radiant with satisfaction, that he now possessed nearly four hundred serfs,
a stock worth about half a million of silver roubles. After these satisfactory
reflections, he jumped gaily out of bed, and did not even think of looking at
his face, for which he had a particular affection, and in which, as it seemed,
he thought his chin was the most attractive feature, because he had the habit of
passing his hand frequently over it when in the presence of any intimate friend;
he did this particularly when he had been shaving in the morning. "Just look
here," he used to say, whilst stroking it gently with his hand, "behold what a
chin I have got--perfectly round and smooth!" But this time, he examined neither
his chin nor his face, but directly, such as he was, he got into his red
morocco-leather morning boots, richly embroidered with silk of a variety of
colours, for the manufacture of which the ancient Tartar town of Kazan is so
justly celebrated; and thanks to his Russian constitution, that heeds no
temperature, just as he was, with nothing but his night-shirt on, in the real
Scotch fashion, he forgot for a moment his sedate character and middle age, and
executed two regular jumps round his room, touching himself, very cleverly
indeed, twice with the soles of his feet. The very next moment, he immediately
sat down to attend to his business: as he was thus seated before his dressing-
case, he rubbed his hands cheerfully for a moment--just as they would be rubbed
by a honest and incorruptible judge when he is about to sit down to a luncheon
before pronouncing his judgment in court; after having done this, Tchichikoff
produced at once his papers and documents. He was anxious to settle his affairs
in Smolensk as speedily as possible, and leave nothing undone which could be
attended to on that very day. He determined upon drawing up the contracts of
sale himself; to write down and copy everything with his own hand, so as not to
have to pay a copek to any of the government _employÃ©s_. He was perfectly
familiar with the particular style and lawful forms of such documents; and he,
therefore, with a bold hand wrote down in large characters, one thousand eight
hundred and forty such a year, then immediately lower, but in much smaller
characters, councillor of state, gentleman, so and so; in fact, all was done and
written as it ought to be, and in two hours later his work was accomplished.
When he once more cast a glance over the various documents with the names of the
serfs on them, who had at one time been real slaves, working, tilling, drinking,
cheating their master, and perhaps also simply honest serfs, it was then that he
felt a strange and incomprehensible sensation suddenly overcome him. Each of the
lists possessed, as it were, a distinct character, and through that fact, it
seemed again that each serf named upon them assumed also an individual
character. The serfs who formerly belonged to the widow-lady, Korobotchka, had
nearly all nicknames attached to them. The note of old Pluschkin distinguished
itself by its brevity of construction; many of the names were only indicated by
the first two letters of the Christian and family name, and then followed two
points, or rather blots. Sobakevitch's list attracted his special attention by
its unusual fullness and minuteness; not one of the various qualifications of
any one of his serfs had been omitted; one of them had been noted down as a
"clever joiner," to the name of another the following was appended, "a sharp
fellow, eats no tallow." Particular _nota benes_ were also made who their
father, and who their mother had been; only one individual of the name of Phedot
was distinguished thus, "father unknown, but was born of a girl in the house, of
the name of Capitolina, good principles and no thief." All these particulars had
a peculiar appearance of reality; it seemed to Tchichikoff himself, as if these
poor dead serfs were alive yesterday. He kept looking for a long time at their
names, until he felt his heart melting, as it were, to a feeling of pity, and
heaving a deep sigh, he exclaimed:

"Good heavens, how many there are of you, to be sure! Poor fellows, I wish you
could tell me, what you have been doing during your existence! How have you been
battling your way through this world of woe?" And his eyes rested involuntarily
upon the, to us, already familiar name of Peter Savelieff Neuvaschaikorito, who
once had been the property of Lady Korobotchka. And again he could not forbear
making the observation:

"What a rich name to be sure, he takes a whole line all to himself;" and he then
continued, "when among the living, were you a clever fellow in your profession,
or simply a clumsy mouzhik; and were did you meet your death-blow? Was it in a
dram-shop, or on the high road, or were you surrounded by those dear to you by
the ties of nature? Stephen Korobka, joiner, a sober and steady man. Ah! here he
is, Stephen Korobka, that is the fellow, who, according to Sobakevitch, would
have been a giant in the Imperial Life-Guards! No doubt the poor fellow wandered
about in obscurity with a hatchet on his side, and his boots across his
shoulders, making his meals at the slender expense of one copek for brown bread,
and two for dried fish, whilst, on returning home from his yearly work, he would
bring with him a purse stuffed with silver roubles, and perhaps have some bank
notes sewn up between the lining of his shirt or boots--where are you now? Have
you, anxious for larger profits, been even as far as Moscow, and elevated
yourself as high as the spire of Ivan Veliki, and tried to ring the changes on
an Easter-night, but unsuccessfully fallen to the ground, whilst some more
clever fellow than yourself standing close by would scratch himself behind the
ear, and say: 'poor Stephen, can't you stand the noise?' and coolly take your
place. "Maxim Teliatnikoff, shoemaker--shoemaker. Oh, ah, a shoemaker! 'drunk
like a cobbler,' says our proverb. I know you, know you well, my fine fellow; if
you like, I can tell you in a few words your own history; you were brought up to
your trade by a native from Germany, who fed you at the same table, and beat
your shoulders with the same strap to punish you for your own neglect and
carelessness, and kept you at work and strictly in doors; at that time you were
really an excellent fellow, but not a cobbler, and your German master thought
that he could not praise you enough in the presence of his wife or friends. But
when you had finished your apprenticeship, you said to yourself: 'now I will
keep a strap myself, and not have to scrape together, one by one, the copper
copeks as my German master used to do.' Thinking thus, you contrived to pay your
yearly impost to your lawful master, and were allowed to remain in town and set
up in your profession. You succeeded so far well enough, for you happened to
obtain numerous orders by way of encouragement, and you sat down to your work.
Some wretched tanner supplied you with rotten leather, three times cheaper, it
is true, than you could have bought a good material for; and really for a short
time you even succeeded in making double profit upon each pair of boots you
sold; but in about two weeks later, the boots of your manufacture were
completely worn out, and you were called by your customers all sorts of names.
In consequence of this mode of dealing, your shop was soon deserted by them, and
by yourself; because you took to drinking and rolling about the streets, whilst
in your state of intoxication you would often exclaim: 'No, really there is no
consolation in life! we Russians cannot make a decent living, these foreigners
push themselves forward everywhere, they positively take the very bread out of
our mouths!' "What peasant have we here? Elizabeth Vorobei. What a shame! a
woman! how has she got among the men? He is a thorough cheat, that fellow
Sobakevitch, even here he has tried to take advantage over me!" Tchichikoff was
right, it was really a woman. How she had slipped among the men, it was quite
impossible to tell, but certainly it was done very cleverly, for the woman might
at a first glance have easily been taken for a man. However, he did not take the
imposition in good part, and struck the name from the list at once. "Gregory
Dogeschainedogedish! What sort of a man have you been, I wonder? Were you
perhaps one of those carriers by profession, driving your gallant troika from
town to town, and fair to fair, bidding a long farewell to your family and
friends to go and lead a wandering life in the service of some travelling
tradesman between Russia and China? Did you surrender your soul to Heaven on the
high road, or were you carried to your last resting-place by your village
kindred, and your mourning wife and children? "And you, my fine fellows?" he
continued, as he cast a glance over the list of run-away serfs belonging to
Pluschkin. "Although you may be alive, yet where is the advantage of possessing
you? you are as worthless as your dead brethren, and Heaven only knows whither
your swift feet have borne you? Were you really so ill-used by old Pluschkin
that you thought it better to run away, or were you naturally inclined to become
vagabonds, and now plunder travellers on the high road and in the forests? Are
you perhaps incarcerated in some gloomy prison, awaiting your sentence, or have
you become the property of a new master, and are at this moment tilling the land
of another lord? "Jeremy Kariakin, Nikita Volokita, and Antony Volokita his son;
these fellows, I presume, were excellent run-aways, if I am to judge by the
first and classical syllables of their name. Some one of you, I can have no
doubt, has had the misfortune to fall into the hands of what you call in the
country the CapitÃ¤n-Ispravnik, who, as a gentleman strictly looking after
passport regulations, has no doubt cross-examined you on the subject, and
perhaps in the following terms:

"'Whose serf are you?' said he, perhaps, in his imperative voice, whilst
interspersing his question with a few strong and fitting terms. "'I am the serf
of such and such a nobleman,' you will have answered boldly. "'Why are you
here?' demands again the military Capitan. "'I have received my due permission
to go and search for work in town,' is again your bold reply. "'And where is
your passport?' "'With my landlord, the citizen Pimenoff.' "'Send for Pimenoff
immediately. Are you Pimenoff?' "'I am Pimenoff. "'Did this man give you his
passport?' "'No, your glory, he has given me no passport of any description.'
"'How dare you tell me a falsehood?' says the CapitÃ¤n-Ispravnik, adding,
meanwhile a few strong and suitable terms. "'Just so,' is your bold reply to
this observation, 'I did not give it to him because I returned home late, but I
gave it for safe keeping to the bell-ringer, Antip Prochoroff." "'Send for the
bell-ringer! Did he give to you his passport?' "'No, Sir, I did not receive a
passport from him.' "'Why, that is another falsehood,' says the military
Capitan, strengthening his affirmation with a few more impressive words. 'Now,
can you tell me where your passport is?' "'I am sure I had a passport,' you said
quickly, 'but it seems I have lost it somewhere on the road.' "'And how do you
account for the possession of this soldier's cloak?' demands again the CapitÃ¤n-
Ispravnik sternly, whilst adding again a few strong and fitting terms, 'why have
you robbed the imperial servant of his garb? and why have you dared to plunder
the Pope's coffer of his coppers?' "'I'm innocent,' you say boldly, 'I have
never yet been convicted of theft.' "'And how is it that they have picked you up
drunk and incapable, and clad in this cloak?' "'I really can't say; no doubt
some one else has put it on me.' "'Ah, you are a rogue and a vagabond,' speaks
the CapitÃ¤n-Ispravnik, shaking his head at you, and putting his hands to his
sides. 'Guards, put the fellow in irons, and lead him away into the darkest
dungeon.' "'Very well, your glory, I submit myself with pleasure,' is your
polite reply. "And hereupon you produce your snuff-box, and treat with its
contents, and in the most friendly manner, the two invalids who are putting the
chains on your legs, asking them coolly how long ago they were discharged from
their hard service in the army, and in what battles they have fought. And now
you continue to live some time in prison, until due inquiries are made about
you, and your case properly and leisurely investigated. "At last, the following
decision arrives: the run-away serf, Nikita Volokita, will be transferred from
the prisons of Zarevo-Kokaisk to the prison of Mosaisk, from there a fresh order
transfers you again to the prison in Vesegonsk, and thus you continue to be
transferred from dungeon to dungeon, and you say to yourself as you inspect your
new habitation:

"'I don't know, but somehow I like Vesegonsk better than any of the other
places; the place is larger and cleaner, and the company here much gayer!'
"Abakum Phiroff! and what are you? where and in what part of the vast Empire
could you now be met with? Have you gone down the river Volga and taken a fancy
to an agitated life on the swelling waves, and joined some of the gay river
men?" --

Saying this, Tchichikoff stopped short and began to muse and reflect. What might
he have been thinking about? Did he try to imagine the fate of Abakum Phiroff,
or did he plunge into reflections like any other Russian, whatever his age might
be, no matter of what rank or fortune, when he reflects upon the broad road of
human life? And in truth where is Phiroff now? He wanders boisterously and gaily
along the rich shores of the Volga; he has hired his services to some travelling
merchant. Flowers and ribbons ornament his peculiarly shaped hat; he seems now
as cheerful and contented as any of his comrades born and bred to that peculiar
life; they are just bidding farewell to their wives and sweethearts--tall,
active, and healthy women, looking as picturesque as the men, in their wide
frocks and flowing tresses mixed with gay ornaments and coloured ribbons; songs
with and without choruses, and again interrupted, but a solo or an accompaniment
of the national guitar or balalaika is to be heard all along the piers and
shores. The bustle and life among the people assembled is now at its height, for
they are completing the cargo of their barges, into which they store the last
sacks, containing wheat, barley, oats and other grains, which the fertile soil
in that part of the country so abundantly produces. Along the shores are yet
hundreds and thousands more sacks filled with various grains, heaped in columns
and towering like Egyptian pyramids into the air, and ready to be shipped as
soon as the warm rays of the spring can burst the melting ice, and allow this
bread-stuff arsenal to drift down the river, barge following barge like a band
of swans when proudly floating down the rapid stream. Such is the occupation of
our Russian river-men on the shores of the Volga, where he has hard work, but
where he leads a comparatively independent and cheerful life, and where his gay
and melodious songs are heard from the source to the efflux of that magnificent
river. CHAPTER VII. "Holloa, he! twelve o'clock," Tchichikoff said at last,
looking at his watch, "how could I so utterly forget myself? if at least there
had been any business-like result in these reflections, but as it is, it was but
folly and nonsense!" Saying this, he changed his highland costume for a more
becoming one, buckled tighter up his full stomach, perfumed his face and hands
with some Eau de Cologne, put his warm travelling-cap in his hand, and the
various documents under his arm and hurriedly left the inn, hastening towards
the government offices to conclude his contracts. He did not hasten for fear of
being too late; oh, no, he was not afraid of being too late, because the
President of the Council was now his intimate friend, and could prolong or
shorten the sittings in the court at his own convenience; he was as powerful in
his office as Homer in his classical poems, who lengthened his days and sent
tempestuous nights when he wished to shorten the quarrels of his favourite
heroes, or allow them to fight out their differences. With our hero it was
different, he felt an inward longing to terminate his business as quickly as
possible; until he had done so, he would be sure not to feel either tranquil or
comfortable, because the reflection occurred to him, that the serfs were not a
positive reality though he had a point of law in his favour, and that under such
peculiar circumstances it is always prudent to hasten the conclusion as quickly
as possible. But scarcely had he walked a short distance in the street, and
whilst musing on the subject of his errand, covered as he was in a large coffee-
coloured travelling cloak, he could not avoid running, as he was just on the
point of turning round the corner, against a gentleman also dressed in a large
coffee-coloured travelling cloak and huge cap to match it covering his head and
ears. This gentleman could not repress an exclamation of joyful surprise at the
sight of Tchichikoff, for it proved to be his friend Maniloff. They sank at once
into each other's arms, and remained in that position, firmly clasped together,
for more than five minutes in the middle of the thronged pavement. The exchange
of their mutual affection was so tender and strong, that both suffered for the
rest of the day from pains in their fore-teeth. Maniloff's gratification was so
great, that actually nothing else but his nose and lips could be seen on his
face; as for his eyes, they had literally molten away for joy. For more than a
quarter of an hour he held firmly clasped between his own Tchichikoff's hand,
and by his affectionate pressure heated it to a considerable degree. In the most
elaborate, elegant, and chosen terms, he assured his friend that he had hastened
to town to embrace his dear Pavel Ivanovitch; his address was concluded with
such compliments as might perhaps only be spoken to a young lady when she is led
to a country-dance. Tchichikoff opened his mouth without knowing what he was
going to say in acknowledgment of such great civilities, when Maniloff suddenly
produced from under his cloak a parcel of papers, rolled up in the shape of a
tube, and tied together with a pink ribbon. "What is that?" inquired
Tchichikoff. "The dead serfs, my dear Pavel Ivanovitch," replied Maniloff, with
his usual honeyed smile. "Ah!" he immediately untied and unfolded the papers,
and cast a hurried glance over the lists and was pleasantly surprised at the
neatness and accuracy of the writing. "A beautiful hand-writing," said he, "it
will be quite unnecessary for me to copy it over again. And even a beautiful
black line like a frame around it! pray, and who has taken the trouble to draw
these accomplished lines around it?" "Pray do not ask me," said Maniloff.
"Yourself?" "My wife." "By heavens! I am really ashamed to have given you and
your kind lady so much trouble, I am indeed quite ashamed!" "For our own dear
Pavel Ivanovitch, nothing is a trouble!" Tchichikoff bowed deeply and civilly an
acknowledgment. When Maniloff heard that his friend was on his way to the
government offices for the purpose of concluding the formalities of the
contracts of sale, he immediately offered to accompany him thither. The two
friends joined their arms and went away together. At each indifferent, uneven,
or broken flag-stone, Maniloff immediately and civilly assisted Tchichikoff to
pass over, and in his anxiety, even nearly lifted him from the ground with his
arm, adding at the same time, and with a pleasant smile, that he would not
suffer his dear friend to hurt his little feet against any stone whatever.
Tchichikoff felt really ashamed, not knowing how he could return the attention,
because he was conscious that he was rather of a heavy weight. While continuing
to exchange civilities, they arrived at last upon a large and open square, where
they beheld the Imperial government offices before them; the building was a very
extensive one, three stories high, and painted white, like chalk, no doubt a
symbolic sign of the purity of the hearts of those who were appointed to
administer justice; the other buildings in the square were altogether out of
proportion with the immense white house. The most remarkable features in it
were; a sentry's box, before which a soldier with his musket was walking up and
down, several droschki-stands surrounded by their idle drivers, and at last a
range of wooden walls, painted grey, and with their usual inscriptions and
characters drawn on them, with either chalk or charcoal; there was really
nothing else worth mentioning to be seen on this desolate, or as it would be
called in Russia--handsome square. From out of the windows of the second and
third stories, now and then a few heads of the unimpeachable and incorruptible
administrator's assistants would make a momentary appearance and then
immediately draw them back again, no doubt because their President entered the
room at the moment. The two friends now entered the large building and found
themselves before a wide staircase, which they did not ascend, but rather scaled
in a canter, because Tchichikoff was trying to escape the further assistance of
Maniloff's arm, and therefore rushed quickly forward, whilst his friend Maniloff
on the other hand, was also anxious to hasten forward in order to prevent
Tchichikoff feeling tired from the ascension of the long flight of stairs. With
these different objects in view, they both rushed madly as it were onward until
they both met at the landing above, which, ended in a sudden collision in a dark
passage. Neither the passage nor the interior of the rooms which they entered
immediately after, in any way made a pleasant impression upon their sight as
regards cleanliness. It is true also, that at that particular moment, neither of
them was disposed to pay any attention to the circumstance; and all that which
was wanting in order and cleanliness, was therefore left to remain dirty and
disorderly just as it was, assuming not the least feature of attraction. The
door-keeper of the offices received his guests in a shabby and inelegant
costume, and opened the door to the new corners. It would perhaps have been
deemed desirable to have a minute description of the various rooms through which
our two heroes passed; but the author must confess, that he has a particular
repugnance for any and all places of justice in any country, but particularly so
for those in his own country. And even, though it has happened to him to pass or
rather wind his way through some courts of justice decorated in the highest
fashion, and covered with carpets and marqueterie, and polished tables, yet he
always endeavoured to hurry his steps as much as possible, while casting down
his eyes, and therefore it is quite impossible for him to give any interesting
description of the inner charms and attractions of the courts of justice in the
Russian Empire. Our heroes saw numerous piles of waste paper and of white paper,
many downcast heads, broad shoulders, dress-coats, and imperial shape and even
some common grey cotton jackets, which contrasted very strongly with the other
colours; some of these grey jacketed gentlemen had their heads bent all on one
side, and nearly leaning on the paper, as if ready to fell asleep over their
work, and yet they were busy scribbling, copying perhaps some brief or inventory
concerning a mortgaged estate, which the Crown was about to take possession of,
because the righteous owner had been ruined or banished from the country. At
intervals, short exclamations could be heard pronounced in a subdued and often
unpleasant tone of voice, such as: "Mr. so and so, will you give me the
application of No. 777! You are in the continual habit of mislaying the cork of
the imperial ink-bottle!" Now and then the sounds of a voice speaking in a tone
of importance was also heard, no doubt proceeding from a superior officer, and
consequently in a more autocratic manner:

"Here, take that and copy it off immediately, if not, I shall order your boots
to be taken off your feet, and you shall have to sit for six hours without a
chance of eating anything." The noise produced by the quills in operation was
very great indeed, and resembled very much the noise produced by a carriage when
passing through a forest across a road strewn with dry autumnal leaves.
Tchichikoff and Maniloff approached the first table they were near, and at which
two _employÃ©s_, rather young men, were sitting, and busying themselves in doing
nothing, they addressed them in the following manner:

"Will you allow me to inquire, where the 'contract of sale' business is
transacted in these offices?" "And what is your business?" said both _employÃ©s_
at once, whilst turning to the speaker. "I want to hand in a petition concerning
some contracts of sale." "And what is it you have been buying?" "Before telling
that, I should have liked to know first where the contract of sale department is
--is it here or in another place?" "You must first tell us what you have been
purchasing and at what price, and then we shall tell you where you will have to
apply to, but without knowing this we cannot advise you." Tchichikoff saw at
once that curiosity only prompted them to address these questions to him, and
that like all young men or _employÃ©s,_ they wished to gratify their curiosity
and give at the same time a greater importance to themselves and to their
occupations. "My good young gentlemen," said Tchichikoff, "I am perfectly aware
that all contracts of sale, no matter at what price a bargain has been
concluded, are settled and legalised at one and the same place, and if you don't
know what is doing at your table, then we shall at once proceed to ask some one
else." The _employÃ©s_ made no reply whatever to this observation, but one of
them pointed with his fore-finger to the corner of the room, where an elderly
man was sitting behind a table and stirring about in a heap of papers.
Tchichikoff and Maniloff passed through a long range of tables straight towards
the old man. He seemed to be very seriously engaged with his occupation. "Sir,
will you allow me to ask you," said Tchichikoff with a bow, "whether this is the
department or section for the conclusion of contracts of sale?" The elderly
_employÃ©_ lifted up his eyes and spoke abruptly in reply: "contract of sale
business is not transacted here." "And pray, where then?" "In the section for
the conclusion of contracts of sale." "But where am I to find this section?" "It
is under the superintendence of Ivan Antonovitch." "Could you perhaps tell me
where I might find Ivan Antonovitch?" The old man pointed with his forefinger to
another corner of the extensive room. Tchichikoff and Maniloff hurried towards
the seat of Ivan Antonovitch, who had espied them already with one of his eyes
and scrutinized them now with the other, which having done, he immediately
plunged again if possible still deeper into his occupation. CHAPTER VIII. "Allow
me to ask if you please," spoke Tchichikoff with a civil bow, "is this the
section for the contracts of sale?" Ivan Antonovitch appeared as if he had not
heard the question at all, and busied himself as completely as possible among
his papers without saying a word in reply. It was evident that this person was
already a man of a sedate and serious age, and not at all like those two
youngsters or madcaps. Ivan Antonovitch seemed to be already at some distance
beyond forty years; his hair was black and abundantly covered his head; the
centre of his face seemed to rush forward towards its extremity, the nose, in a
word, it was a face that would be called in ordinary Russian parlance, a muggy
one. "Allow me to ask you, Sir, if this is the department for the conclusion of
contracts of sale?" Tchichikoff demanded again. "Yes," answered Ivan
Antonovitch, turning his muggy face towards the inquirer for a moment, and, then
immediately beginning to write again. "My business is the following: I have
purchased of several landed proprietors in this province a number of serfs with
the intention of settling them elsewhere: the contracts of sale are prepared and
now only require to be lawfully legalized." "Are the contracting parties
present?" "Some of them are in town, others have sent their powers of attorney."
"Have you brought a written petition on the subject?" "I have done so, Sir. I
should have liked, that is to say, I would be very glad indeed to terminate this
business as soon as possible. Therefore, could we not, for an instance, begin at
once in order to finish all this very day?" "Oh to-day! that is quite
impossible," said Ivan Antonovitch. "Due inquiries must be made in the first
instance to ascertain if no objections could or would be raised in the matter."
"As regards this, and in order to speed the subject, I may inform you, Sir, that
Ivan Gregorievitch, the president, is an intimate friend of mine." "But allow me
to observe to you, Sir, that Ivan Gregorievitch is not the only person who would
have to attend to this matter; there are other persons as well," said Ivan
Antonovitch dryly. Tchichikoff caught at once the hint which Ivan Gregorievitch
had dropped for his information, and said, "nor shall others have to complain of
me, I have been in the civil service of our country myself, I know what business
and promptitude means." "Well, then I would advise you to go at once to the
President," said Ivan Antonovitch, in a rather pleasanter tone of voice, "let
him give his instructions to whom it concerns, and as for ourselves you may be
assured that your business shall be attended to." Tchichikoff produced a white
bank-note from his pocket-book and laid it on the table before Ivan Antonovitch,
which the other did not seem to see at all, but instantly covered with a large
book. Tchichikoff was about drawing his attention to it, but Ivan Antonovitch
with a peculiar nod of his head made him understand that it was perfectly
unnecessary. "That man will shew you into the President's private office," said
Ivan Antonovitch, whilst making a sign to one of the _employÃ©s_ to approach, who
happened to be just in the way and no doubt ready to devote all his energies to
the service of justice and his country, in which devotion he seemed to have even
sacrificed his coat, if we were to judge by his two sleeves, which had burst at
both elbows and which now displayed the lining to great advantage, and for which
services and devotion of years such men are generally dismissed with a useless
title or a paltry pension. This man then joined our friends and served them like
Virgil once assisted Dante, and led them through a long range of tables and
rooms into the office of the President, where they saw a lonely, large and
comfortable arm-chair, in which and before a table and two huge books they
beheld the President, radiant like the sun. At this sight, the modern Virgil
felt an inexpressible feeling of delight overcome him suddenly, so great and
powerful indeed, that he would not dare to venture a step further but turned
round immediately, and thus showed the back of his coat which was completely
worn out and covered all over with down and feathers. When the two friends had
entered the apartment they saw that the President was not alone; behind him sat
Sobakevitch, who was completely hidden by a large cheval looking-glass. The
entrance of the two guests was hailed with an exclamation of joyful surprise,
and the presidential chair was pushed back loudly. Sobakevitch also rose from
his seat, and as he thus happened to be standing before the looking-glass, his
huge figure and extensively wide and long sleeves of his coat loomed larger than
ever. The President most cordially embraced Tchichikoff, and the walls of the
justice-room re-echoed their tender exchange of affection, they then civilly
inquired after the respective state of their health, and it proved that they
were both suffering from pains in their loins, the natural consequence of a
sedentary life and occupations. The President seemed to have been already
informed by Sobakevitch of Tchichikoff's purchase, because he now begun to
compliment him on the subject, which at first seemed rather to take our hero by
surprise, especially when the idea occurred to him, that two of the contracting
parties, namely Maniloff and Sobakevitch, with whom he had come to an
understanding of mutual secrecy, were now standing opposite one another.
However, he soon recovered himself, and thanking the President for his civil
inquiries, he immediately turned towards Sobakevitch and asked him politely.
"And how do you do?" "Thank Heavens, I have no reason to complain," answered
Sobakevitch. And really he had no cause of complaint; it would have been easier
for a piece of pig-iron to catch a cold and begin to cough, than for this
wonderfully constituted landed proprietor. "True enough, you have always enjoyed
an excellent state of health," the President observed, "and I remember your late
father, was as strong and healthy a man as yourself." "Yes, he was in the habit
of going bearhunting all by himself," answered Sobakevitch. "However, I am of
opinion," said the President again, "that you could master a bear as well, if
you liked to encounter one." "No, I could not," Sobakevitch answered; "my late
father was much stronger than I am;" and, after a deep sigh, he continued: "No,
the men of our present day are not what they used to be formerly. Take me even
for an example; what is my life and strength? I have just sufficient energy to
bear my life." "Why, what makes you complain of your life?" the President
inquired again. "It is not good or satisfactory!" exclaimed Sobakevitch, whilst
shaking his head slowly. "Just judge yourself, Ivan Gregorievitch: I am at the
beginning of my third score, and have not once suffered the slightest complaint
or indisposition, not even from a cold. Now you will agree with me that this
cannot be for the better. Some fine day will dawn when I shall have, no doubt,
to pay dearly for this, my present state of health and life." Hereupon
Sobakevitch relapsed into what seemed a state of melancholy or hypochondria.
"What a strange fancy, to be sure," the President and Tchichikoff thought at the
same time, "to be brooding on such a subject." "I have a letter for you my dear
President," said Tchichikoff, producing Pluschkin's letter, with the evident
intention of changing the subject of their conversation. "And pray from whom?"
the President demanded, as he was breaking the seal; and, having done so, he
exclaimed: "Ah! is it possible, from Pluschkin. He is still a wanderer on the
surface of this world. What a strange fate, that man's is; for I must tell you,
gentlemen, that he was one of the most accomplished, and wealthiest men I ever
happened to know! and now--"

"A real dog," said Sobakevitch, "a rascal, who has starved the greater part of
his serfs." "Very well, and with great pleasure," said the President, when he
had read the letter; "I am willing to be his representative and agent in the
matter. When do you wish to sign the contracts, now or later?" "Now, if you
please," said Tchichikoff; "and I shall even beg of you to transact all the
business, if possible, to-day, because I wish to leave town to-morrow on some
important affairs. I have brought with me the various documents--such as the
contract of sale, the petition, and the list of names; in fact everything is
ready." "All this is well and good," said the President; "do as you please; but
we do not intend to part with you so easily. The contracts shall be attended to,
and signed this very day, on condition that you will consent to remain with us.
I will give my instructions immediately," continued the high officer of the
crown, as he opened the door leading into the office, which was now crowded with
_employÃ©s_, who, like the industrious bees, were gathered in heaps of a hundred,
on the spot; if it was possible that so many of them could have found any real
employment. "Ivan Antonovitch, is he there?" "Here!" answered a voice from the
interior. "Send him to me!" The muggy face of Ivan Antonovitch, already so
familiar to us, soon after made its appearance before the President's room, and
he entered with a profusion of servile bowing. "Take these papers, Ivan
Antonovitch, all these contracts of sale must be--"

"By the bye, do not forget, Ivan Gregorievitch," interrupted Sobakevitch, "that
we shall require witnesses, at least two for each contracting party. I would
suggest that you should send at once to the Procurator, he is a regular holiday-
man, and is sure to be at home--his public business is usually managed by his
lawyer, Mr. Solotucha, the greatest sharp I ever met with in this world. The
Superintendent of the Medical Faculties is also a holiday-bird, and likely to be
at home, if he has not already gone to play cards somewhere; however, there are
a great many more besides those two, and who live even nearer, for instance,
Truchatchevitch, Beguschikin, all these people live free of expense in this wide
world." "Just so, exactly, you are perfectly right!" said the President; and he
immediately gave instructions to some of his messengers to go in search of the
parties just mentioned by Sobakevitch. "I will also request you," added
Tchichikoff, "to send for the attorney of a widow lady, with whom I have also
concluded a trifling business. Her agent is the son of the Proto-pope, Father
Kyrila; I am told he holds an appointment in your offices." "To be sure we shall
have him as well," said the President. "Everything shall be done to your
satisfaction, but as for my _employÃ©s_, I must beg, nay even insist upon, your
giving them no gratuity. I never suffer any of my friends to pay for anything."
Saying this, he immediately gave all the necessary instructions to Ivan
Antonovitch, who seemed not to like the arrangements at all. The contracts of
sale seemed to produce a very favourable impression upon the mind of the
President, especially when he had glanced over them, and found that the
purchases made by Tchichikoff amounted to nearly half a million of silver
roubles. He kept looking for several minutes at Tchichikoff, straight into the
eyes, with a feeling of great satisfaction, and then added, smiling:

"It is thus, then! In such a manner then my dear Pavel Ivanovitch, you have made
some valuable and important acquisitions indeed!" "Yes, really, I have made some
acquisitions," replied Tchichikoff, modestly. "A good speculation, really--a
capital undertaking!" "Yes, indeed, and I must own that I am of opinion that I
could not venture into a more profitable business. Whatever the opinion of the
world may be, I opine that the aim of a man is never thoroughly defined, if he
does not stand with a firm footing upon a solid foundation, and not upon any
frivolous chimera of a youthful imagination." Hereupon, he added in a few more
strong terms, and in good time, his disapproval of the hot-headed liberalism of
the present youthful generation. But it was remarkable that with all his clever
reasoning, there was a slight irregularity in the usual calm and dignified tone
of voice, as if he was at the same time whispering to himself, "Oh, my good
fellow, how mercilessly you impose upon people!" He even did not venture to lift
his eyes either to Sobakevitch or Maniloff, fearing to meet some peculiar
expression in their faces or countenance. However, his alarms were imaginary.
Sobakevitch's face was perfectly devoid of any expression whatever, whilst
Maniloff was perfectly captivated by his elaborate speech. He only kept nodding
his head approvingly, and throwing himself into that peculiar position into
which an amateur of music would plunge when his favourite _prima donna_ has
surpassed even the notes of the violin, and sent forth a tone which the throat
of a bird would have been incapable of articulating. "But why don't you mention
to our friend Ivan Gregorievitch," Sobakevitch interrupted at last, "what kind
of acquisition you have been making? And you, my dear President, why don't you
ask him what purchases he has been making? Excellent people, as valuable as
gold. I must inform you that I have even sold him my old Micheeff, the coach-
builder." "No, really, have you sold that excellent fellow Micheeff?" the
President inquired. "I remember now your coach-builder, Micheeff, very well--an
excellent and clever artisan. He has often mended my droschki. But stop, allow
me--how is this--I remember now, you told me that he was dead." "Who! Micheeff
dead?" said Sobakevitch, and nearly betraying himself. "It was his brother who
died; as for the coach-builder, he is perfectly alive and healthier than ever he
was before. He finished the other day a britchka with which you might venture to
travel in a canter to Moscow. I am of opinion that he ought to be appointed to
work for the Emperor alone." "Yes, truly, Micheeff is a very clever fellow
indeed," said the President, "and I am even surprised that you could agree to
part with him for any amount or consideration." "Micheeff is not the only one. I
have even sold Stephen Korobka, the joiner; Milushkin, the potter; Maxim
Teliatnikoff, the shoemaker--they are all gone, I have got rid of every one of
them." But when the President asked him why he had thus disposed of them, as
they were all such clever and indispensable workmen on a country estate,
Sobakevitch answered, whilst sawing his right arm in the air:

"Bah, I was attacked by a peculiar whim of mine, and I said to myself, I am
determined, and will sell all these fellows, and thus, then, I got rid of them
all on account of a fancy." After this explanation; he allowed his head to hang
down, as if he was addressing inward reproaches to himself, and then he added
again:

"Though you see that I am already a greyhaired man, yet I must confess I am
still deficient in wisdom." "But allow me to ask you, my dear Pavel Ivanovitch,"
the President said again, "how did you purchase these serfs, without the land
they were born upon? is it with the intention of removing them from here?" "Just
so, for emigration." "Ah, for emigration views, that is another thing. And pray
for what part of the country? if the question is not indiscreet?" "To what part
of the country--oh, ah, I shall take them into the government of Kherson." "Oh,
that is one of the finest provinces in the Empire!" exclaimed the President, and
expressed his high praise of the excellency of the soil in that province, and
the richness of its steppes. "And have you sufficient land for the accommodation
of your newly-acquired population?" "Just sufficient for comfortable
distribution among my new serfs." "Have you a fine flowing river, or a brook?"
"A river. However, there is also a large brook." Saying this, Tchichikoff
involuntarily looked at Sobakevitch, and though the other remained as cool and
indifferent as before, nevertheless it seemed to him as if the following was as
it were, written in the expression of his face. "Oh, what a falsehood! for it is
not likely that you will have a river and a brook as well, when, perhaps you
have not even a piece of land!" CHAPTER IX. Whilst a lively conversation
continued to be carried on between the parties assembled in the President's
office, the witnesses began to arrive one by one: among the earlier arrivals was
a man already known to our reader, the winking Procurator; he was immediately
followed by the Superintendant of the Medical Faculties, then came
Truchatchevitch, Beguschikin, and all those whom Sobakevitch had enumerated as
uselessly walking about on the face of the earth. Many of them were total
strangers to Tchichikoff, whilst the missing witnesses were easily supplied from
the ranks of the _employÃ©s_ in the offices, in fact there was rather a
superfluity of them, for not only the son of the Proto-pope, Father Kyrila was
present, but even the worthy old man himself. Every one of the required
witnesses now began to sign their names on the various documents, not forgetting
to append their rank or title. As for each individual signature, it was an
original for itself as regards the execution of the letters which formed the
names, and certainly it would have been very difficult indeed to find
corresponding ones in the Russian alphabet. The well-known individual, Ivan
Antonovitch displayed considerable activity, and in a very short time, all the
contracts of sale were duly booked and registered in the government ledger;
according to the regulations, an impost of a half per cent was calculated on the
whole, including the publication of the transaction in the "Ministerial
Gazetteer," and at the conclusion of the business, Tchichikoff found that his
expenses were but a mere trifle. The President even gave instructions, that one
half only of the half per cent impost duty should be received from his friend;
as for the other half, it was carried to the account of some other indifferent
petitioner. "And now," said the President, when all the business was concluded,
"now, we shall only have to sprinkle a little wine and inaugurate your excellent
and important enterprise." "I am agreeable," said Tchichikoff. "I leave it
entirely to you to fix upon the place and time. It would be sinful were I not to
feel most happy to be agreeable in turn to such estimable company as all those
around me; yes, gentlemen, now is the time to uncork a few or more bottles of
that excellent sparkling wine of our brothers in France." "No, pardon me, you
misunderstand the matter: for we will ourselves provide the sparkling
entertainment," said the President, "we feel this to be an obligation, our duty.
You are our guest; we are bound to regale you. Do you know, gentlemen, what I
will suggest to you; whatever we do later, for the present I propose that we
adjourn at once and all, just as we are, to the house of our friend the
Commissioner of Police; he is a wonderful man amongst us; we need only give him
a slight hint and pass the fish-market or a wine-cellar, and you may depend upon
it that we shall make a luncheon equal to a feast! at the same time I may
observe that we shall have an excellent opportunity for a nice game of whist or
lansquenet." Such a suggestion no one could possibly withstand. The witnesses
felt a voracious appetite at the mere mention of the fish, market; they all
rushed to take their hats and caps, and the sitting of the court was adjourned.
When they passed through the room in which Ivan Antonovitch, the muggy-face, was
sitting, he bowed politely, and whispered to Tchichikoff:

"You have purchased serfs for nearly half-a-millions' worth, but rewarded my
troubles with a lonely twenty-fiver." "But what serfs!" replied Tchichikoff to
this, also in an undertone; "really useless, worthless people, not worth half
the money." Ivan Antonovitch, hearing this, felt at once convinced that the
stranger was of a positive character and would give him no more. "How much
a-head did you pay for Pluschkin's serfs?" Sobakevitch whispered into his other
ear. "And why have you put on the list that Vorobieff," said Tchichikoff, in
reply to his question. "What Vorobieff?" demanded Sobakevitch. "I mean the
woman, Elizabeth Vorobieff, it seems as if you even took some pains to pass her
off as a man." "I attempted nothing of the sort," said Sobakevitch, as he went
to join the other guests. The guests proceeded all in a crowd towards the house
of the Commissioner of Police. The commander of the police-force of Smolensk,
was really and without flattery a wonderful man. Scarcely had he been informed
of what his friends expected from him, when he immediately called one of his
satellites, a fine and quick young fellow in shiny boots, to whom He seemed to
whisper but two words, and then added aloud: "You understand me?" and thereupon,
whilst the guests were trying to spend a little while in the next room, in
playing a game of whist; the following dishes made their successive appearance
upon the table: three different kinds of sturgeon called respectively: osetra,
beluga, and sewruga, smoked and pickled salmon, fresh and preserved caviar, some
cheese, smoked ox-tongues, and a variety of other fish dainties, made up the
supplies from the fish-market. Then were brought up additional supplies,
furnished by the master of the house from his own kitchen; a large pie,
containing the head, cartilage and jaws of a sturgeon that must have weighed
more than three hundred pounds, besides a variety of other minced tarts, baked
in sweet oils and butter. The Commissioner of Police was in some respects
considered as the father and benefactor of the town. He was perfectly at home
among the majority of the citizens, and was accustomed to visit their shops and
the market-places as if they were his own warehouses. He generally sat--as the
phrase goes--in his right place, and did his duty accordingly. The majority of
the tradesmen courted him particularly, because he was not proud; and really,
his condescension towards them was very great indeed, when we take into
consideration his exalted position; he stood as godfather to all their children,
and attended every one of their evening parties, and though he made them pay
heavy fines, whenever he found an occasion, yet he did it so exceedingly
cleverly, that they could not feel angry with him for doing his duty: he would
tap them in a friendly manner, on the shoulder, and add a pleasant smile, treat
them with an excellent cup of tea at his own house, promise them to call at
their house of shop and play a game of draughts, inquire after everybody and
everything; ask them how they were satisfied with trade, and in fact, take a
lively interest in all their concerns. If he should happen to hear that one or
the other of the children had caught a cold, or was otherwise indisposed, he
would immediately attend upon him personally, and suggest a variety of remedies
to cure him, in a word he was a clever man! If he happened to drive about in his
droschki, he was sure to make as many calls as he possibly could,.and meanwhile
drop a sly word to the one or to the other, and say:

"Now then, master Micheitch, I think it high time for us two to have a hand at a
game of cards, what do you say to that?" "Yes, Ivan Alexeitch," answers Master
Micheitch, good-humouredly, whilst taking off his cap, "I think it a favourable
opportunity for us to have a game." "Well, brother Elias Paramonitch, would you
like to come and look at my trotter? I am ready to run a race with your horse I
saw the other day; we will try them and have a trifling bet on them." The
merchant who was madly fond of race horses, but especially of trotters, smiled
at the proposal with an unusual gratification, and whilst stroking his long
beard he would say:

"Very well, Alexei Ivanovitch, we will try them!" At such moments all idle
bystanders would usually take off their caps and smile with inward satisfaction
at each other, and appear as if they wished to say:

"Alexei Ivanovitch is an excellent, kind and good-hearted gentleman!" In a word,
he had succeeded in gaining universal esteem, and the opinion of all the
merchants who knew him was, that if Alexei Ivanovitch once captivated a fellow,
he never parted with him again. The Commissioner of Police, when he perceived
that the luncheon was ready on the table, suggested to his guests that they
should finish their game of whist afterwards, and all entered that room from
which an agreeable and inviting perfume began to titillate the nostrils and
stomachs of the guests, and into which Sobakevitch had already for some time
been casting longing glances at an immense sturgeon which was lying on a side
table, upon a large dish. The guests tasted as a relish to sharpen their
appetite, a _liqueur_ of that dark olive colour, which is only seen in Siberian
precious stones, and which are used in Russia for valuable ornaments only;
having done so they approached the table from all sides with fork in hand, and
began to display their choice of taste, or if we may say so, every one his
character and inclination, in attacking the one, the fresh caviar, another, the
large fish pie, a third, the cheese and so forth. Sobakevitch left all the
smaller dishes unnoticed, and betook himself at once to the large dish with the
sturgeon upon it, and whilst the other guests were eating, talking and drinking,
he had succeeded in the short space of a quarter of an hour, and without any
great exertions in eating nearly the whole fish, so that when the Police-master
accidentally bethought himself of the fish, saying:

"By the bye, I wonder, gentlemen, how you will like this wonderful production of
nature?" and then approaching the dish with fork in hand and followed by his
guests, he found but the tail left of his wonderful production of nature. As for
Sobakevitch, he feigned not to notice it, but taking up a plate he coolly
approached another dish with small fried fish upon it, and used his fork to pick
up a few of them, as if he had no real appetite. After having thus quietly
dispatched the sturgeon, Sobakevitch sat himself down in an easy chair, and
neither ate nor drank any more, but like a cat, kept licking his lips and
winking his eyes. CHAPTER X. The first toast proposed after luncheon, was as our
reader may easily and naturally imagine, to the health and prosperity of the
noble landed proprietor from the government of Kherson; then, to the welfare and
happy settlement on his estate of his newly acquired peasants; and last, not
least, to the health of his intended spouse, the boisterous hip, hip, hurrahs,
which followed the last toast, forcing a pleasant smile from the lips of our
hero. Immediately after his health had been drank, he was at once surrounded by
every one present, one and all of whom begged and entreated him to prolong his
sojourn in Smolensk for, at least, two weeks. "No, no, Pavel Ivanovitch! say
what you like, but give way to our persuasions, for you cannot deny our
proverbs, and if you leave us you would but cool our huts--enter upon the
threshold and retreat! No, no, you had better stop and spend your time with us!
We will marry you if you like; what do you say to that Ivan Gregorievitch, shall
we marry him?" "We'll marry him, we'll find him a wife," his Excellency the
President rejoined. "However much you might feel inclined to struggle with hands
and feet against it, we are determined to marry you! No, excellent papa, there
is no getting out of this, since you have fallen among us, you must not
complain. We are not jesting with you." "Well, gentlemen, why should I struggle,
with hands and feet?" said Tchichikoff, smiling. "Matrimonial ties are not to be
rejected thoughtlessly, provided the bride could be found." "We'll find you a
bride. How should we not? We shall find everything, all--whatever your heart may
wish for." "Ah! in such a case--"

"Bravo! he will stay!" was the general shout. "Vivat! hurra to our Pavel
Ivanovitch Tchichikoff! Hip! hip! hurrah!" And all approached him again to shake
hands and touch glasses. Tchichikoff made his response to everybody. "Stop,
stop, once more!" said those of a more lively disposition, and touched glasses
again; they then assailed him for a third time, and touched glasses for a third
time. In a very short time afterwards they became all very gay and lively. The
President, who was a most amiable man when in a cheerful disposition, embraced
Tchichikoff several times and in the excess of his overflowing heart, said to
him, "Oh, you are my darling--my mother!" and then he would smack his fingers at
him, and begin to dance and sing around him. After the champagne, they had some
sparkling Hungarian wine, which considerably heightened the good-humour of the
company. They had now entirely forgotten their game of whist; they were arguing
loudly, shouting, singing and speaking of everything, not even excluding
politics, nor the military preparations that were carried on already at that
time with hostile intentions towards Turkey; which, as a matter of course, led
them further on to express their mutual disapprobation of the Emperor's conduct,
and which free expressions at any other time they would have severely resented
even from their children. In this instance, they conversed freely and decided
the most important questions of state, which would have considerably embarrassed
even a Menschikoff and a Nesselrode. Tchichikoff never felt so happy and well-
disposed as on this occasion, and fancied himself to be really a landed
proprietor of the beautiful province of Kherson; he began to speak of a variety
of improvements; on the system of English and American improvements in
agriculture and machinery; on the happiness and beatitude of two loving hearts,
and even began to recite to Sobakevitch the verses of Werther to Charlotte, to
which declamation the other could do nothing better than wink with his eyes,
because, after the meal he had made of the sturgeon, he felt a great inclination
for a doze. Tchichikoff now began to feel that he was becoming rather too free
and communicative, and therefore accepted the droschki of the Procurator. The
coachman of the imperial gentleman proved to be a fellow of a sharp intellect,
and displayed it on the road, for he did not guide his horses with both hands,
but contrived to do so with his left only, whilst with his right, he managed to
help the gentleman to keep his seat on the equipage. In this manner, our hero
drove home in a strange carriage, whilst a thousand stranger ideas kept
continually crossing his mind. A fair bride, with golden hair, rosy cheeks with
a mole on both, a splendid estate and villages in the fair province of Kherson,
and a large fortune to match it. Selifan even received some sundry instructions
concerning his new method of administration, to call together all the recently
acquired serfs, and to pass them in review one by one, and show them the land
and hut allotted to them in their new settlement by their noble lord and master.
Selifan listened silently and for a long while, but then he left the room,
saying to Petruschka, "Petruschka, go and undress your master." Petruschka began
to take off his boots, and his master succeeded in undressing himself properly;
and after turning over several times in his bed, which in consequence creaked
most unmercifully, he fell asleep, under the positive impression that he was a
landed proprietor of the fair province of Kherson. Meanwhile, Petruschka carried
into the lobby the pantaloons and the snuff-coloured dress-coat with the brass
buttons, and having spread them across a wooden stand, he began to whip and
brush so well and much that the landing of the staircase was soon filled with a
cloud of dust. As he was on the point of taking the clothes off, he happened to
glance down the landing and saw Selifan, who was returning from the stable;
their glances met, and they at once understood one another as if by intuition.
"Our master is fast asleep, now is our time to go and look about a little." To
take the dress-coat and trowsers into the room was done in an instant, and
immediately after Petruschka had rejoined his friend below, and both went out
together. Not a word was said about where they intended to go, and on the road
they talked of the most indifferent subjects. Their walk was not a long one;
they simply crossed the street and entered the house opposite to the inn; they
then approached a low smoky glass door, which led, as it were, into a cellar,
where they beheld a number of strange-looking people sitting around wooden
tables; some were well shaved, others again wore their beard long, according to
the national custom; some were dressed in a sheep-skin with the wool inside,
others again simply in shirt-sleeves, and here and there a few in a common felt
cloak. What Petruschka and Selifan did there, we cannot say, but when they left
the house in about an hour after they entered it, they made their appearance in
the open street, arm-in-arm, preserving a strict silence, but helping and
upholding one another most carefully, and cleverly avoiding each stone and
turning. Hand-in-hand and holding each other strongly, they remained for more
than a quarter of an hour at the foot of the staircase; at last, being convinced
that they were right, they began the ascent, in which they succeeded to their
mutual satisfaction after many exertions. They now entered the room, and
Petruschka stood musingly for a few minutes before his bedstead, which, as our
reader may perhaps recollect, was of the most wretched description; he was
thinking how he should lie down in order to sleep with the greatest degree of
comfort, at last he laid himself down perfectly across the bed, so that his feet
rested upon the floor. Selifan laid himself down also upon the same bed, but so
that his head rested upon the stomach of his comrade, and thus forgot completely
that he had no right to sleep in this room at all, but ought to have gone down
in the lower hall or in his stable to watch his horses. In this position they
both fell immediately fast asleep, and began to snore as loudly and as deeply as
any Russian bear could possibly snore; their deep notes were answered from the
other room by their master, in a fine, nasal, steam-pipe whistle. Soon after,
the whole of the establishment had sunk as it were into a magic slumber, with
the exception, however, of one lonely window, in which a light was yet
glimmering; this room was occupied by the lieutenant who had arrived with his
own carriage and horses. According to the head-waiter's information, he came
from Rizan, and was evidently passionately fond of boots, or he had already
ordered four pair of Wellingtons and was now busily engaged in trying on the
fifth pair. He had already several times approached his bed with the evident
object of laying down to his rest, but it was impossible--he could not succeed;
the boots were too well-made, and he continued yet for a considerable time to
look at and admire his boots, which were very well made indeed; the heels
especially seemed to keep his attention awake, because they were extensively
high--according to the latest fashion. CHAPTER XI. The purchases made by our
friend Tchichikoff became the gossip of the day, and created a great sensation
in Smolensk. The whole town conversed freely on the subject, opinions were
given, and conclusions arrived at, whilst questions arose whether it was a good
speculation to purchase serfs in the north, with the object in view of
transplanting or settling them in the south. Animated, as the majority of
persons are by a spirit of contradiction, many pronounced themselves perfectly
capable of enumerating all the advantages and disadvantages on the great
undertaking of the stranger. "Certainly," said some one of them, "you are
perfectly right on several points, and your argument is as dear as it is
obvious, no objection can be raised against it: the soil in the southern
provinces of the Empire, and especially near the Crimea, is very rich and
productive; but his estate seems to be situated at some considerable distance
from the Dnieper, which flows through our very town, and what is our friend
Tchichikoff, and what especially are his serfs to do without a river? for you
cannot deny it--he has no river." "Well, my dear Stephan Dmitrievitch, don't
excite yourself, for Heaven's sake don't, to be without a river is, after all,
not so bad as you seem to imagine, allow me to tell you, that the process of
emigrating and settling serfs, is by far the greatest difficulty. Is it not
well-known what our serfs are? to transplant them as it were upon a fresh soil,
and train them again to a foreign system of agriculture, is, in my humble
opinion, a herculean task, besides you must not forget, that if the serf really
arrives alive at his new destination, he generally finds nothing to shelter his
head under, but has to build his own hut, though the cattle is found for him.
Add to all these disadvantages, and you know it as well as I, the desperate
character of those fellows, and you will come to the conclusion, that if they
take it in their heads to run away, you may but whistle after them, and this
argument you must allow to be as clear and conclusive as that two and two make
four." "No, no, my dear Alexei Ivanovitch, allow me, pardon me, if I disagree
with you on that point, that the serfs of Tchichikoff should take it into their
heads to run away. The Russian is fit for everything, and can accustom himself
to any climate. Send him even to Siberia or Kamtchatka if you like, but give him
only a pair of leather gloves and his hatchet, and you may depend upon it that
he will clasp his fist, and build himself another hut in no time." "Allow me to
tell you, Ivan Gregorievitch, that you have lost sight of a very important fact
indeed: you have forgotten to inquire of what character Tchichikoff's new serfs
are? You seem to forget that a wise owner will never sell a good, industrious,
and valuable serf. I am ready to lay down my head upon the block, if
Tchichikoff's newly-acquired peasants are not one and all confirmed drunkards,
and riotous people, and thieves and murderers in the bargain." "Just so,
exactly, I agree with you on this point; and I will allow that all Tchichikoff's
slaves are confirmed drunkards, but we must also take into consideration, that
in this very fact lies the moral, yes, I repeat it, in this fact lies the hidden
moral, which has escaped your penetration; as you justly observed, they are all
scoundrels now, but leaving their old abode, and settling in a different
country, they might easily become most valuable subjects. Such instances and
examples have been very frequent within our own country, as well as in other
empires, nay, even history proves them." "Never, never," said the Inspector of
the the Imperial Manufactories, "believe me, such things can never happen,
because Tchichikoff's serfs are now going to encounter two formidable enemies:
their first antagonist will be the close proximity of the Malo-Russian
provinces, where, as you all well know, spirits of wine are sold duty free. I
can assure you that in less than two weeks they will become like inner-soles
from pure drinking. Their other enemy is their natural disposition for idling
and wandering about, which is sure to develope itself most powerfully during the
progress of their emigration. Unless, indeed, Tchichikoff was to have them
continually under his eyes, and was to keep them with a strong hand like a
Jamtchick his troika, scold them for the least trifle, not trust to anyone else
but himself, be continually with and after them, and when occasion require it,
treat them like our great Emperor Peter did, even with his generals, namely,
give them a box in the ear, or a blow in the neck." "But why should Tchichikoff
take all the trouble to box their ears and face himself, he could easily meet
with a trustworthy steward to manage his estate as well as his serfs." "Oh, oh,
find a trustworthy steward; but, my dear man, you forget that they are generally
all scoundrels, and the real blood-suckers of the peasantry!" "They are all
rogues because of the indolence of the land owners, who will not take the
trouble and look after their own interest." "You are perfectly right;" re-echoed
the majority. "If our proud and wealthy landowners were only to know a little of
their household interests and understand how to choose their confidants, matters
would stand quite different in our holy Russia, and stewards, would be honest
men." One of the gentlemen present who happened to be an imperial manager,
hereupon said, that it was quite impossible to find a conscientious and honest
manager for less than five thousand silver roubles a-year. But the President at
once rejoined that such a virtuous man might even be met with at three thousand
a-year. But the manager boldly rejoined: "where could you find such a person?
hanging about your elbows perhaps?" And the President in turn again replied: "he
is not exactly hanging at my elbow's ends, but at any rate not far off from
here, and if you like to know where, I can tell you that he lives in my very
district, and his name is Peter Petrovitch Rasgerischin; and that is the very
man that would suit our friend Tchichikoff as a manager for his estates and
serfs." Many entered feelingly into Tchichikoff's position, and the difficulties
that would necessarily arise from the displacement of such a large number of
serfs, began to alarm them very seriously indeed; in their apprehensions some of
them went even so far as to predict the possible outbreak of a riot, especially
as the thought occurred to them of what description the serfs of Tchichikoff
were represented to be. With reference to this latter contingency, the
Commissioner of Police observed, "that it was foolish to anticipate a riot,
because a few hundred peasants were about to emigrate, and admitting even that
some slight disturbances were to happen, there existed the power of the CapitÃ¤n-
Ispravnik to stifle it in its very birth, and that if the CapitÃ¤n-Ispravnik did
not choose to attend to the matter in person, it would be quite sufficient for
him to send his cap, which like the policeman in England, would be powerful
enough to drive the rioters back to their duty and home in an incredibly short
space of time." Many others again offered their advice how the spirit of revolt
--which in their wise opinion of the serfs of Tchichikoff, was sure to break out
among them--could be repressed or prevented, especially when the poor fellows,
namely the serfs, were to be torn away from their native soil, and perhaps the
bosom of their families. The opinions and suggestions on this point were
numerous and original; there were some who advised rather stringent measures,
all replete with military rigour, if not barbarity, at any rate of a very severe
nature indeed; however, there were also a few who advised kindness and
compassion. The Postmaster observed, that he was under a sacred obligation, that
it lay in his power to become a father to his slaves, to use his own expression;
introduce even among them the blessing of moral and physical emancipation and
enlightenment, at the same time he did not forget to mention with great praise
the Lancastrian system of mutual education. It was in such a manner that the
good inhabitants of Smolensk expressed, themselves on the subject of our hero's
enterprise, and many of them, overpowered by their goodwill towards him, even
communicated their suggestions personally to him, and even went so far as to
offer him the services of an escort, for the safer conveyance of his serfs to
their place of destination. For their advice, Tchichikoff thanked them most
cordially, saying, that if he should have occasion he would not fail to avail
himself of their kind suggestions, but as for the preferred military escort, he
declined it in the most positive terms, assuring them at the same time, that it
would be perfectly unnecessary, as the peasants which he had bought were all of
an extremely mild character, and that they felt a free and independent
inclination to settle over in another country where they were sure to feel
happy; and that as to the anticipated riot, which his friends apprehended, he
assured them that under such happy auspices this was a contingency which could
impossibly happen among his newly-acquired serfs. CHAPTER XII. Such and similar
conversations and discussions produced, however, the most beneficial
consequences for the interest of Tchichikoff, and which he was far from
anticipating; namely, the news was spread about, that he was nothing more or
less than a millionaire. The inhabitants of Smolensk, without this new
advantage, had already taken a particular fancy for Tchichikoff, as we have seen
already from the first chapter; but now, and after such a report they began to
like him more than heartily if possible. However, if we are to speak the truth,
we must confess that they were all excellent people, lived in concord and unity,
and behaved themselves in the most friendly and christian-like manner; whilst
their daily conversation bore the stamp of a peculiar simplicity and candour
quite of a primitive nature: "My dear friend Yliah Ylitsch! listen, brother
Anthipator Sacharievitch! you have told a falsehood, my dear old gossip Ivan
Gregorievitch!" and whenever they addressed themselves to the Postmaster, whom
they called Ivan Andreievitch, they were sure to add, "sprechen sie deutsch?" in
a word all lived in a very friendly and homely manner. Many of them were hot
without pretensions to a superior education; his Excellency the President of the
Council, for instance, knew by heart several of the poems of Pushkin and
Zoukovsky, and could recite them with due emphasis, especially the passage
commencing, "The forest sleeps, the plain is silent," and the word "hush!" was
so cleverly pronounced by him, that it really seemed as if the forest was
actually fast asleep; in order to add more effect and truthfulness to his
recitation, he used at this passage to close his eyelids immediately. The
Postmaster inclined more towards natural philosophy, and continued reading very
diligently, even during the night Young's "Night Thoughts," and the "Key to the
Secrets of Nature," by Eckartshausen, from which books he was even in the habit
of making very long extracts, but of what description these extracts were it is
impossible for us to tell; on the whole, he was sharp and acute, flowery in his
language, and fond of composing original phrases, which, we regret, it is
equally impossible for us to render in the English language. The other men of
importance were also, more or less, of a cultivated mind; some of them used to
read translations from all languages, others again, delighted in the study of
the authors of the country, or read the newspapers, whilst some even did not
read at all Some individuals were also difficult of comprehension, and could not
understand you unless you took the trouble, as the phrase goes, to dot their i's
for them; some again were as dull as a blockhead--if we may use the expression;
they would continue to stick to their prejudices and remain lying on their backs
like a log of wood; it was perfectly useless to try to lift them up; they would
listen to no persuasions. As regards their general bodily appearance, it is
already well-known to our readers that they were of an imposing countenance,
solid and sober-minded men, there was not the least frivolity about them. They
possessed all those qualities, which caused their wives in moments of tender
conversation, and _tÃªte-Ã -tÃªtes_ to address them pretty nearly in the following
language: "Dear mullet; my little fat man; little fairy; pretty blacky; kiki;
joujou," and so forth. And in general they were all good-natured and kind-
hearted men, pervaded with a due sense of hospitality--a great and favourable
characteristic trait of the whole nation. For if even a stranger had had an
opportunity to taste what they call their "salt and bread," or sat with them at
a game of whist, he became at once as it were dear to them. And so much the more
was it the case with Tchichikoff, who, thanks to his agreeable and gentlemanly
manners, had completely ingratiated himself in their esteem and good opinion,
because he had the secret gift of pleasing, whenever it was to his advantage
convenient to do so. They had taken so great an affection for him, that he could
not possibly imagine a scheme or pretence under which he could leave the town;
all he now heard daily was, "One little week more, only one more; you must stay
and live with us, our dear Pavel Ivanovitch!" in a word he was treated in the
most affectionate manner, and nursed, as the phrase goes, like a child in baby
linen. But incomparably remarkable was the impression (the direct road to
madness) which Tchichikoff had produced upon the fair sex of Smolensk. To
explain this extraordinary fact, only approximatively, it would be necessary to
say a great deal of the fair ladies themselves, their society; and paint in
glowing colours the qualities of their hearts. But here it is that the author
feels seriously embarrassed, because the thought occurs to him that he is now
writing to please the fair inhabitants of the British isles, and that he has no
longer the right to be elaborate in the description of the moral and physical
qualities of his own countrywomen. On the other hand, he still feels a great
respect for the husbands of Smolensk, and as for a third reason--the third
reason is that it is really difficult to divine, or dive into the depth of the
female heart. The ladies of Smolensk were--no, it is impossible to tell what; I
feel a peculiar timidity overcoming me all of a sudden. In the ladies of
Smolensk the most prominent features were--it is really strange, but my pen
refuses to obey the hand, and seems as if loaded with lead. Be it so; the
description of their character I will leave to one more worthy than myself; to
one who knows how to paint in vivid colours and with a powerful brush, and
reserve to myself, in this instance, the modest privilege of saying a few words
on their personal appearance and manners; it is a very superficial glance. The
ladies of Smolensk then, were what is termed presentable, and in this respect
they could be confidently placed as a model to all other ladies. As to their
manners, observances of fashion, maintenance of etiquette, and great propriety
in its finest shades, but especially in the due observance of the laws of
fashion in its last particulars, they rivalled, nay, even surpassed, the court
ladies of St. Petersburgh and Moscow. They dressed with great taste, drove about
town in their own open carriages, made according to the last imported model from
Vienna or London, with a seat behind in which a fat flunkey covered over with
gold lace was rocking himself gallantly. Visiting cards were as the French say
de _rigueur_, no matter whether the name was written upon the deuce of diamonds
or the ace of spades, to have them, was a sacred obligation. For the sake of a
visiting card two lady friends and even near relatives, fell out for ever,
because the one had omitted to send her card in return to the other, and thus
found wanting in reciprocating civility. And, notwithstanding the earnest
endeavours of their husbands and friends effect a reconciliation between them,
it proved a total failure; and although many difficulties might be overcome in
this world, yet this remained an impossibility, the reconciliation of two
ladies, who fell out because the one of them committed a _manque de_ towards her
friend. Thus then these two ladies continued to live in mutual disaffection. As
regards the privilege of occupying the first seat at concerts and evening
parties, there happened also numerous differences and serious scenes; inspiring
their husbands, sometimes, with an extraordinary sense of chivalrous and
magnanimous courage in supporting and defending their rights and claims. Duels
of course were not fought between them, because they were all knighted men and
imperial _employÃ©s_, but instead, the one tried to annoy the other as much as
possible, which in many instances is really worse than fighting a duel on the
most disadvantageous terms. As regards the _morale_ of the ladies of Smolensk,
they used to be, strictly speaking, extremely severe and rigid--full of an
aristocratic indignation at the lightest offence, and the least flaw or weakness
in that respect was condemned and punished with the utmost rigour. And if even,
something or another did happen (which we will by no means call improper) among
them, they always agreed to come to some secret compromise, so that it remained
impossible ever to ascertain the real cause of the scandal, in fact, they
followed the wise maxim of the great Napoleon, who, on such occasions used to
say: "il faut toujours laver le linge sale en famille!" As for the present
Emperor of the French, it is impossible for us to tell positively, what his
opinion on such a subject would be, though we are led to believe that he is a
man of considerable experience in family matters; as for the kind husbands of
the ladies in Smolensk, their honour continued to remain perfectly intact, and
the decorum was preserved in every instance of that kind; for they were so well
prepared to meet an attack, that if even they happened to see something or
another, or bear of it, they were always found ready with a dignified reply or a
short proverb like the following: "whose business I ask you is it, if the cousin
and her cousin chose to sit in the pit?" We must also not forget to add, that
the ladies of Smolensk, were distinguished for their elegant expressions, and in
that respect resembled and reminded us of the ladies at the imperial courts of
Moscow and St. Petersburg; they were extremely careful and graceful in their
words and actions. They never used to say, I have snuffed my nose, I am
perspiring, I spat; but they expressed themselves in nearly the following terms:
I have availed myself of my pocket handkerchief, dancing and walking excites me.
It was also quite impossible for them to say; this glass or plate is not clean,
nor would they use any term approximating to it, but instead, expressed
themselves, perhaps, thus: this glass or plate has been considerably neglected,
or something very much like it. And in order to render the Russian language more
aristocratic (for in Russia one likes to ape aristocracy if not autocracy), they
had the habit of omitting one half of the words in their mother tongue, and
replacing them cleverly with French phraseology, which language, rich as it is
in _homonymes_, allows of expressions much stronger and more equivocal than
those we have mentioned above, completely rejected as vulgar from the memory of
the fair ladies of Smolensk. And this is nearly all we have to say about the
ladies of Smolensk, speaking superficially. But if we were to glance deeper into
the character of these ladies, we should, of course, discover many more of their
interesting propensities; however, we will not venture to do so, because it is
very dangerous to look to any depth into the heart of a lady. And thus limiting
ourselves to superficial glances, we will again proceed in our observations. Up
to this time, the ladies in general had taken no very particular notice of
Tchichikoff, they had rendered him, however, full justice by acknowledging him
to be a perfect gentleman, and a man of extremely agreeable manners; but from
the moment that the report was spread about, that he was a millionaire, they
discovered in him many more hitherto hidden qualities. However, the ladies
themselves were not at all selfish; the fault was lying in the word millionaire,
not in the millionaire himself, but positively in the word; because in the only
sound of the word, or in the bag of money, is concluded a something that acts
most powerfully upon the honest as well as the dishonest man, in fine, it
produced an effect upon everybody. The wealthy man enjoys the privilege of
looking with leisure upon the most creeping business, the most barefaced
civility, based upon no principle whatever; many men of such character know
perfectly well that they will receive nothing for degrading themselves thus far,
and even that they have no right, whatever, to accept anything for doing so, but
yet they will persist and rush forward to meet him, to smile when he approaches,
to take off their hat when he passes, and do everything to obtain an invitation
to any dinner party where they may be sure of dining with the millionaire. We
will not venture to affirm that this servile inclination was perceptible in the
ladies; however, in many of the drawing-rooms in town, the observation went the
round, that Tchichikoff was certainly far from being handsome, but yet, that he
was such as a man ought to be, and were he to be a little stouter or a little
thinner, he would have certainly not have been even good looking. At the same
time, it was also whispered about and rather to the disadvantage of slender men,
that they resembled more a tooth-pick than a man. In the toilettes of the
ladies, many additions became about this time visible. The bazaars were crowded
with visitors and purchasers nearly to suffocation; promenades were even brought
into fashion, and the number of carriages driving about were nearly innumerable.
The tradesmen seemed bewildered, when they saw that several pieces of silk stuff
which they had purchased in the capital, and which they had not been able to
sell till now, because they were pronounced too costly, found suddenly a ready
sale, and even occasioned disputes as to who should have the preference in their
acquisition. During the promenade, one of the fair ladies was observed to have
something like a large ring adjusted in her dress, which would have been wide
enough to cover the cupola of a church, and which very much embarrassed her in
the progress of her walk, so much so indeed that the police-officer on duty
ordered the common people to leave the parapet, so as not to be in the way of
her Excellency. Tchichikoff even in spite of his usual equanimity could not
forbear to remark at last such unusual attention. One fine evening when he
returned home to his hotel, he was surprised to find a neatly-sealed letter upon
his table; where it came from, and who had brought it, it was impossible for him
to ascertain; even the acute head-waiter could tell him no more but that some
person brought it who had received instructions not to tell that it came from a
lady. The letter began in the following positive style: "No, I feel that I must
write to thee!" Then something was said about a secret sympathy of souls; this
opinion was affirmed by numerous little dots, which occupied more than half a
line; then followed some thoughts very remarkable for their truthfulness, so
much so, that we consider it indispensable to copy them. "What is our life? A
wilderness, covered with sorrows. What is the world? A crowd of insensible
beings." After this much, the fair writer observed that she, was bathing with
her tears the last lines of a tender mother, who had ceased to live for her
these last twenty-five years. Tchichikoff was then invited to leave town for the
solitude, because it was impossible to breathe freely in a place where the heart
remained incarcerated by the chains of society. The latter part of the letter
expressed real despair, and concluded in the following verse:

Two turtle-doves will show     Thee,--my cold grave,     Their mournful cooing
will tell     Thee,--that I died in tears. This is as nearly as we can give it
in English, though we must confess that the original was also deficient in
poetical composition. However, it was to the purpose, and quite in the spirit of
the day. There was no signature at the bottom--no Christian name, nor family
name, nor was the month or date mentioned. However, there was a postscript--
whoever is accustomed to receive letters from ladies is of course aware they are
in the habit never to post their epistles without the addition of a P.S. ; and
as for my fair readers they know best why they never omit it. The postscript of
the fair unknown to our hero went on to say that his own heart ought to tell him
who she was, and that she would be at the Lord-Lieutenant's ball the next night,
and that it was there that he should behold the original. This epistle
considerably excited and pre-occupied the mind of our hero. In this anonymous
communication there was so much that was mysterious and provoked curiosity, that
Tchichikoff could not resist reading it a second and then again a third time,
and at last said, "I am really curious to know who the fair writer might be!" In
a word, the affair, to judge from appearances, promised to become a serious one.
For more than an hour after he continued to think of it; at last, stretching out
his arms and leaning his head on one side, he exclaimed:

"I must confess the letter has been written very feelingly indeed." Then, and as
a matter of course, the letter was carefully folded up and placed in his
writing-desk, close to an old play-bill and an invitation to a wedding, which he
had kept there for these last seven years in the same apartment. Half an hour
later he positively received an invitation to the ball of the Governor of
Smolensk, in which there was nothing unusual, for at the seat of the provincial
administration, where the Lord-Lieutenant resides, there are rejoicings and
balls, else he could not depend upon the powerful support of the country
nobility and gently. From the instant he received the invitation to the ball all
else was set aside, and he began immediately to devote all his attention to the
preparations for the evening party; because there were now many inciting and
pleasant reasons. And for such reasons, perhaps, was there since the creation of
the world, never so much time employed in the preparations for an evening party.
More than an hour was exclusively devoted to the examination of his face in a
looking-glass. He attempted to execute a variety of expressions; at first he
tried to assume an air of importance and propriety, then again a proud
respectfulness, mingled with a smile, and again simply an air of respectfulness
without a smile; a few bows and inclinations were addressed to the looking-
glass, accompanied by indistinct sounds, in some instances very much resembling
the French language, though Tchichikoff did not understand French at all. He
presented himself with numerous pleasant surprises, moved his eyebrows up and
down, contracted his lips, and even seemed to smack his tongue; in a word, what
does a person not do when alone, especially when under the impression that he is
good-looking, and convinced that there is no indiscreet person to glimpse at him
through the keyhole? At last, he pinched slightly his chin, and said, "Oh, you
little rogue," and then he began to dress. It was in the best of humours that he
accomplished his evening toilette. Whilst putting on his braces, or tying his
cravat, he began to scratch compliments with his feet, and bow forward with
unusual grace, and though he was no dancer, he nevertheless executed an
_entrechat_. This _entrechat_ produced a slight but innocent effect; it shook
the chest of drawers, and his hair-brush fell from the sofa. CHAPTER XIII. The
appearance of our hero at the ball of the Governor of Smolensk created
considerable sensation. Every one present turned round to receive him, some even
held their playing-cards in their hands, whilst others stopped short in the most
interesting part of their conversation, they deserted all and everything to rush
forward and greet our hero. "Pavel Ivanovitch! Good Heavens! here is our Pavel
Ivanovitch! Amiable Pavel Ivanovitch! Most worthy Pavel Ivanovitch! Pavel
Ivanovitch my soul! Here you are at last, excellent Pavel Ivanovitch! Allow me
to embrace you my dear Pavel Ivanovitch! Give him up to me, let me embrace him
most passionately, my own dear Pavel Ivanovitch!" Tchichikoff felt himself
suddenly embraced on all sides, without the least chance of preventing it. He
had not quite liberated himself from the affectionate embrace of the President,
when he found himself already in the arms of the clever Commissioner of Police;
the police-master passed him over to the hands of the Inspector of the Medical
Institutions; the Inspector of Hospitals gave him up to the arms of the Imperial
Contractor, the Contractor to the Architect. The Lord-Lieutenant, who was
standing at that moment and conversing with several ladies and presenting them
with some _bonbons,_ left them hurriedly to go and greet his guest, nearly
crushing the favourite lap-dog of his lady; in a word, Tchichikoff spread joy
and pleasure all around him. There was not a face present that did not express
satisfaction, or at least reflect the general gratification that suddenly
prevailed over the company assembled. Our hero returned thanks and compliments
to every one individually, and felt unusually versatile and cheerful; bowed
right and left, as was his habit, slightly inclining towards on side, but with
perfect ease, so that he charmed everybody. The ladies, too, surrounded him like
a garland of flowers, and spread as it were a cloud of a thousand perfumes over
him: the one was scented like a rose, another like a violet, a third was
strongly perfumed with patchouli. Tchichikoff at first, did nothing else but
raise his nose and smell about him. In their dresses there was immense taste;
the muslin, satin, and other silk dresses were of such pale and fashionable
colours, that it was impossible to find them a proper name, to such a degree had
the perfection of taste risen. Ribbon-favours and artificial bouquets, were
strewn in great profusion and in the most picturesque disorder all over their
dresses, though this disorder must have cost some weary hours to some
intelligent dressmaker. The light and graceful headdresses only rested on the
tips of the ears, and they seemed to say: "oh, I am flying away, a pity it is
that I cannot carry off my fairy herself!" Their waists were exceedingly well
laced, and presented to the eye the most solid and well-proportioned forms (we
must not forget to observe here, that the ladies of Smolensk were generally
inclined to _embonpoint_, but used to lace so tightly and ingeniously, and were
of so very agreeable manners that it was perfectly impossible to notice their
fulness of body.) All was with them, studied and preconcerted with unusual
carefulness; their neck and shoulders were uncovered as much as was absolutely
necessary, and not a hair's-breadth farther; every one of them displayed her
powerful charms so long until she felt perfectly convinced they had succeeded to
ruin the peace of a man; as for their other treasures they remained hidden with
much ingenuity; either under a light silken _fichu_ or some Brussels lace
surrounding their graceful neck, and called by the ladies "modesties." These
modesties, wound before and behind, all that which was not calculated to effect
the perdition of their admirer, but they allowed him to guess that it was really
there that his perdition was hidden. Their long white kid gloves were not drawn
up as high as the elbow, but were allowed to remain carelessly wrinkled a little
above the hand, which thus displayed to greater advantage the fulness of a
charming arm; the long gloves of some of the ladies had even become torn, in
consequence of the charming roundness of their arms; in a word, all seemed to be
impressed with the idea: no, this is not a provincial town in Russia, it is the
capital itself, it is a second Paris. Nevertheless, here and there an old-
fashioned head-dress, never seen before on earth, or an extravagant plume would
suddenly appear in the midst of fashion, as it were, to keep up contrast, and
follow its own inclination. However, this could not be otherwise, such
occurrences are inevitable in provincial towns, they will make their appearance
in spite of any precautions. Tchichikoff thus standing and admiring, thought: "I
wonder which of them is the mysterious composer of that interesting letter?" and
would have dearly liked to stretch forth his neck and nose; but before his very
nose he beheld a long range of curls, headdresses, feathers, necks, ribbons,
perfumed modesties, and dresses. A polka-mazurka was just beginning: the
Postmaster's lady, the CapitÃ¤n-Ispravnik, a lady in a blue plume, a lady in a
white plume, the Tcherkessian Prince Chiphaihilidseff, officers, from the guards
of St. Petersburg, and imperial _employÃ©s_ from Moscow, foreigners and Russians
--all started off in a mad dance. "The whole province is whirling round," said
Tchichikoff, as he retreated into the background; but as soon as the ladies took
their seats again after the dance was over, he immediately began to look about
in all directions to try if possible, to discover by the expression of their
faces or the sparkling of their eyes, who the authoress of the letter might be.
Everywhere his eyes met with glances that betrayed a nearly imperceptible
expression of captivating attraction, so very imperceptible. "No," said
Tchichikoff to himself, "women are such subjects, that--" Here he could not help
moving about his right arm in the air, and then he continued; "it is perfectly
useless to speak of them. If anyone was to attempt to describe or define all
that which flushes their faces, the serpentine movements of their muscles, the
insinuating glances, all this, and much more, the result would be, that he could
define nothing whatever. Their eyes alone, are in themselves an unlimited
empire, in which to venture decides the fate of man. From those boundaries he is
sure never to return, nor will any mechanical instrument, however cleverly
contrived, hook him out of it again. Were I to venture, for an example, to give
an idea of their glance: so dewy, velvety. Heaven knows what else their
expression and colour conveys to the human mind; there are some looks full of
harshness, and others again full of tenderness; some full of longing, or as some
say, full of effeminacy, or devoid of this peculiar softness, but what is more
dangerous than all these expressions, is to be caught and captivated by such
looks, when they pierce the heart, and when you find yourself utterly
enthralled. No, it is really impossible to find the right term: the half of the
human race devote their lives to gallantry, and to nothing else but that."
Meanwhile Tchichikoff became more and more bewildered, and incapable of deciding
who the fair authoress of the letter might be. As he was trying to give a
greater effect to the piercing glance of his eyes, he seemed to discover that
the ladies on their part had also increased the expression of their glances, in
which he fancied he beheld hope mingled with sweet torments, all calculated to
destroy the peace of his tormented heart, so acutely did he seem to feel it,
that he at last exclaimed: "No, tis of no use, I cannot guess which it is."
This, however, did not completely destroy the excellent humour he was in.
Unconstrained and with perfect freedom, he proceeded to exchange complimentary
remarks with several ladies, approached them with a firm and easy step, or, as
they say, he paced it gallantly, as old bachelor-fashionables do in their high-
heeled boots, when they have all the appearance of racing mice, running and
hopping in turn. Pacing thus gallantly, with graceful inclinations towards the
right and towards the left, he executed at the same time with his foot,
something like the tail of a shooting star, or uncommonly like a comma. The
ladies were, of course, not only delighted with him, but discovered a variety of
more pleasing and fashionable manners in him, and they even thought they
perceived in his face the undeniable signs of a high mind and something
aristocratic and martial in his countenance, which qualities, as is well known,
please ladies exceedingly. On his account there arose nearly a little scandal:
it had been observed that Tchichikoff chose to take his position more generally
close to the entrance door; some of the ladies having noticed this, hastened
immediately a dance was over, to secure a seat in that part of the _salon_, and
if one of them had been more successful than the others, there arose immediately
a sensation among them, which threatened to become really serious, for such
pushing conduct was pronounced by those who were too late, and of course
disappointed, to be highly improper and importunate. CHAPTER XIV. It is thus
that Tchichikoff entertained the ladies, or rather, and better, it is thus that
the ladies entertained and surrounded him on all sides with their chit-chat,
interspersing it with endless insinuations and fine allegories, which were left
for him to guess and interpret to the best of his intelligence, which, however,
caused the perspiration to appear in large drops on his forehead; he was so
captivated by their amiability that he had entirely forgotten to pay his tribute
of respect in the first instance to the lady of the house. He only bethought
himself of his forgetfulness, when her ladyship had been already standing for a
few moments before him. Her Excellency, the wife of the Lord-Lieutenant, said in
a more than flattering tone of voice, and with a graceful movement of the head;
"Ah, Pavel Ivanovitch, at last I have the pleasure to meet you!" I cannot
exactly remember the words her Excellency spoke on that occasion, but they were
full of that peculiar affability, which is used in modern novels, describing the
fashions in high circles. Our hero turned round, and was just on the point of
returning the compliment of her ladyship, and perhaps with as much good taste as
any other hero of a novel, when suddenly raising his eyes, he stopped short, as
if from the effects of an electric stroke. Before him stood her ladyship, but
not alone. She gave her arm to a charming _blondine_, with fine and regular
features, with a round yet pointed chin, a bewitching oval face, such a head as
an artiste would have chosen as a model for his Madonna, and which faces are
indeed very rare appearances in Russia, where a taste for strongly developed
forms is prevalent in everything, in mountains, in forests, and in steppes, in
faces, in lips and in feet; it was the same fair _blonde_ with whom he met on
his road when leaving Nosdrieff's estate, and when, through the inadvertence of
the coachmen, or the fault of the horses, their carriages had come into
collision, and given so much trouble to the peasants to separate and bring them
in order again. Tchichikoff became so much confused at seeing her that he could
not utter a sensible phrase, and therefore stammered a few words, Heaven knows
what, but something which a hero of a modern novel would never have ventured.
"You do not know my daughter?" said her Excellency; "she has just left, her
Majesty's institute at St. Petersburg." He answered, that he had had already the
good fortune of making her acquaintance, accidentally; he then made an attempt
to add something more, but that something more, would not pass his lips. Her
ladyship, addressed a few more words to him, and then left him in leading away
her daughter to the other end of the saloon, to introduce her child to her other
guests; but Tchichikoff continued to remain on the same spot, as if riveted to
it, like a man, who had left his house in the best humour, and gone into the
street with the intention of taking a pleasant walk, with his eyes disposed to
look at everything, but suddenly stops short and still, recollecting that he has
forgotten something. No one can look so foolish as a man in such a position; in
an instant his careless thoughts desert his countenance, he tries to remember
what it is he has forgotten; is it perhaps his handkerchief, but no, his
handkerchief is in his pocket; perhaps his purse, but no, it is also in pocket;
it seems to him that he has everything about him, and yet something whispers
secretly, that he has positively forgotten something. And he will immediately
look dull and distractedly upon the passing crowd around him, at the hurrying
equipages, at the glittering helmets and arms of the passing soldiery, upon the
gaily coloured sign-boards, but all will have lost its former charms for him.
Tchichikoff became at once a stranger to everything that passed around him. At
that particular moment, also, numerous insinuations and questions full of a
charming curiosity were addressed to him by the fair ladies. "Are poor mortals
of this world permitted to be so curious as to inquire a little, the subject of
your meditations?" "Where are those happy spots on which your thoughts seem to
dwell?" "Would you tell me the names of the one who has plunged you into these
sweet meditations?" Tchichikoff replied to all these phrases with the utmost
indifference, and the pleasant phrases fell as it were into the water. He was
even to such a degree uncivil, that he soon after left them and went away to the
other end of the saloon, wishing to see in what direction her ladyship and
daughter had gone. But the ladies seemed not inclined to part with him so soon;
everyone of them resolved inwardly to use the most powerful means of aggression
upon him, so dangerous to our hearts. It must be observed that some ladies, I
wish it to be understood, that some ladies, only, not all of them, possess a few
foibles; if they are conscious that they have any high perfections about their
persons, be it a fine forehead, a charming mouth, small hands, they will
immediately fancy, that the handsomest part of their person is the first to
attract general attention, and that all around on beholding it, will exclaim in
one outburst of admiration: "Look here, behold, what a classic Grecian nose she
has, or what a marble-like resplendent forehead!" Whoever of them has fine
shoulders, is persuaded at first starting, that all the young men will feel
perfectly bewitched by her charms, and whisper as she passes them! "heavens,
what charming shoulders that lady has!" but as for her face, hair, nose,
forehead, they will forget to look at all, and if they should happen to do so,
it would be with indifference, as if upon something not forming parts of the
same person. Such were the thoughts of some ladies. Every lady vowed to be as
charming as possible during the evening and the dancing, and to expose in all
its glory that corporeal perfection, which was perfection itself. The wife of
the Postmaster, as she was valsing round, bent her head so longingly on one
side, that it was really unmistakeably charming. Another very amiable lady--who
had arrived with the intention of not dancing at all, because the reason was the
sudden apparition of a small pea-like exuberance on her left toe, in consequence
of which she had been obliged to put on a pair of very easy boots--could not
resist the temptation to valse once round in her easy boots, to stop as it were
the foolish pretentions of the Postmaster's wife. But all these well laid out
plans and manoeuvres did not produce the desired effect upon Tchichikoff. He
even did not notice the circle they had been forming round him, but endeavoured
to raise himself on tip-toes and look out if he could discover what had become
of the fair _blondine_; he also tried his fortune in discovering by sitting down
and looking across shoulders and heads. At last he was successful, and
discovered her, sitting close by her mother's side, upon whose head a plume
fixed to a kind of Turkish turban, was balancing most majestically. It seemed
now, as if Tchichikoff wanted to take them by assault; was it sudden
gratification at having found what he had been searching for that acted upon
him, or did some careless person push him from behind, but he literally rushed
madly forward, heeding no one. The Public Contractor received such a push from
him, that the poor man shook, and nearly lost his equilibrium, which might have
caused the downfall of a whole range of guests; the Postmaster also stepped back
a few paces and kept looking after him with the utmost astonishment, mingled
with a smile full of irony, he took no notice of either of them, but rushed
quickly forward; he saw but the fair _blondine_ in the distance, who was just
putting her white and long kid gloves on, no doubt in preparation for the
following dance. As he passed along, he cast a hasty glance upon four couples
who were delighting, as it seemed, in a mazurka; the gentleman's heels dashed
noisily against the floor; a cavalry colonel was dancing with body and soul, and
hands and feet, and making such _pas_ as no one perhaps ever executed even in a
dream. Tchichikoff glided cleverly through the mazurka and between the high-
heels of the dancers, and advanced straight towards the place where the Lord-
Lieutenant's lady was sitting with her daughter beside her. However, he
approached them rather timidly, not pacing it so easily as before, nor tripping
gallantly and fashionably; he even seemed confused, and a decided embarrassment
was undeniably perceptible in all his movements. It is impossible for us to
affirm whether sensations of love had really taken possession, or had been
awakened in the bosom of our hero, because it is a matter of some doubt whether
gentlemen of his description, namely: not so very stout, and yet not too thin,
are still susceptible of the impressions of love; but with all that, there was
in his case something so very unusual indeed--a feeling for which he could not
account for to himself. It seemed to him, and as he confessed it at a later
period, that the whole ball, with all its noisy conversation and boisterous
music, seemed for a few minutes to have been removed to some considerable
distance from him; the violins and comets-a-piston seemed to be played behind a
mountain, and, in fact, all appeared to be covered with a dim mist, not unlike
that seen in an unartistic production of an extensive field in a Dutch
landscape; and in the midst of this misty and carelessly painted field, appeared
prominently, and distinctly, and beautifully finished the fine features of the
enchanting _blondine_. Her oval pretty face, her graceful and svelt stature, of
which only a young girl that has just left the imperial institution may boast,
after a short sojourn in the world of fashion, her white, almost too simple,
muslin dress, encircling easily and freely her lovely form, which was defined in
a peculiarly regular outline. It seemed to him that she resembled a pretty
little puppet or plaything artistically carved in ivory; she shone alone, and
appeared luminous and bright in the midst of this dismal and impenetrable crowd.
CHAPTER XV. Such seems to be the course of life in this world, and therefore it
appears also that Tchichikoff, for a few minutes of his existence, suddenly
became a poet, but the appellation of poet seems to be rather a strong term; at
any rate, he felt within himself the sudden sensations of a lively youth, if not
those of a dashing hussar. Perceiving an unoccupied chair near the two ladies he
immediately sat down in it. His conversation was not very lively in the
beginning, but after a while he felt more at home, and began to feel even a
peculiar confidence gradually taking possession of him. Here, and to our great
discomfiture, we must observe that sedate people and persons occupying high
positions in life, are generally rather heavy in their conversation with ladies;
but, as masters past in this adroitness, we must proclaim our young officers,
beginning from a comet, but not passing, on any account, the rank of colonel.
How they manage to be so amiable and gallant, heaven only knows; they do not
seem to speak very scientifically, nevertheless, you see their fair listeners
laugh most heartily and move about their seats; as for the civil men of the
Empire, heaven also knows, what they have to say for themselves; no doubt they
extol the vastness of the Russias and the importance of their functions as
public servants, or utter some complimentary phrases, which, though not devoid
of imagination, smell horribly of books; if a civilian has positively the good
fortune to say anything amusing, he is sure to laugh at it much more heartily
than any one else. We have made these observations on the two distinct
avocations of men in Russia, in order to show on which side lies the preference,
and that our readers should understand at once, why the fair _blonde_ began to
yawn during her conversation with our hero. Our hero, however, did not notice
the circumstance at all, and continued to relate a thousand pleasing incidents,
which he had repeated in many other places before now, and under the same
circumstances; namely, in the government of Simbirsk, in the family of Lady
Sophia Bespetchna, whilst paying his attentions to her daughter Adelaide; in the
house of Fodor Fedorovitch Perekrojeff in the government of Rizan; at the
country seat of Phrole Vassilievitch Pobedonosnoi, in the government of Pensa;
in the government of Viatka, during his sojourn with Colonel Peter Varsonovitch,
where he also had paid considerable attention to the fair sex. All the ladies
appeared now to be utterly displeased with the conduct of Tchichikoff. One of
them passed him purposely to make him feel her displeasure, and touched even, as
if inadvertently, the fair _blondine_ with the hem of her dress, and as for the
long scarf which graced her shoulders, she even contrived to touch with its
silken tassels the face of the fair girl; at the same moment he heard behind him
an observation made by some fair lips, mingled with the perfumes of violets,
which were far from being agreeable; but, on the contrary, stung him to the
quick. But, he either did not hear the remarks distinctly, or pretended not to
have heard them, besides they were far from being in his favour; he, therefore,
thought it best to respect their opinion and remain silent, though he regretted
it immediately after, but then it had become too late. A general
dissatisfaction, and in many respects very justifiable one, indeed, became
visible on many faces. However important the weight of Tchichikoff might have
been in that society, and though he was considered a millionaire, and though his
face betrayed a high amount of talent, and his countenance even something
martial, yet there are trifles for which a lady forgives no one; were he even
the Emperor of Russia himself of gallant memory, he might consider himself a
lost man. There are instances, when a woman, however weak and feeble in
comparison with a man, becomes suddenly not only stronger than a man, but even
more powerful than anything on the face of the earth. The sudden change in
Tchichikoff's conduct towards the other ladies, which they considered unheard of
before, determined them on forming a league among themselves against him, and
which they concluded for his ruin, behind the chair on which he was sitting. The
fact was, that they thought they had discovered in a few of the observations he
addressed to his fair partner, though they were dry and commonplace enough,
remarks that concerned them personally. To complete his disgrace with them, he
had the misfortune to relate to her an anecdote about an event that had happened
at a ball in another province, on which occasion some young fool had composed a
whole poem in honour of the ridiculous persons who had happened to be present at
that particular ball, and from which poem he recited a few passages on the
dancing assembly. These verses were at once, and blindly, supposed to be the
composition of Tchichikoff himself. The general dissatisfaction with him rose,
if possible, to a still higher degree, and the ladies began to speak of him in
various corners in the most disadvantageous terms indeed; as for the fair
_blondine_, she was completely annihilated, and her doom was sealed at once.
Meanwhile, a most unexpected and unpleasant catastrophe threatened the laurels
of our hero; at the time, when the fair _blonde_ was yawning, and he exerting
himself to relate to her the most pleasant of his reminiscences, and trying even
to imitate the Greek philosopher Diogenes; at that moment, and at the extremest
end of the saloon, who should make his appearance but Nosdrieff. But where did
he come from, was it from the refreshment-room, or from the small green room
where gambling was carried on without limit. Did he enter freely of his own
accord, or was he thrust forward by some one, or by fatality herself? Whatever
brought him there is impossible for us to tell, but the fact is that he made his
appearance quite suddenly and in the best humour of the world; he seemed
exceedingly pleased and gay, and held the arm of the Procurator firmly in his
own, which caused the other to frown repeatedly with his thick and heavy
eyebrows, as if trying to hit upon a scheme by which to escape from this strong
grasp and this too friendly arm-in-arm promenade. The position of the Procurator
appeared to be perfectly unbearable. Nosdrieff, who seemed to have imbibed
considerable courage from two cups of tea, which of course he had not swallowed
without a considerable addition of rum, began as usual to tell the most
incredible stories. On perceiving him at a distance, Tchichikoff determined at
once, though with great regret, to give up his enviable seat, and hasten away as
quickly as possible; because an internal feeling told him that this encounter
would have fatal consequences. But as if to confirm his presentiment, in that
very instant his Excellency the Lord-Lieutenant prevented him carrying out his
intention as he turned towards him and remarked good-humouredly, that he was
very glad to meet his friend Pavel Ivanovitch, whom he wished to be a judge
between himself and two ladies, to decide the question, whether woman's love was
permanent or not; at that same moment Nosdrieff also caught sight of our hero,
and came straight up to him. "Ah, the gentleman from Kherson, the Chersonese
slave-owner!" he exclaimed, as he approached and burst out into a fit of
laughter which made his fresh, rosy-coloured cheeks tremble, "Well, how many
more dead men have you acquired? But your Excellency does not perhaps know," he
continued, in the same strain, as he turned towards the Governor of Smolensk,
"that our worthy friend here deals in dead serfs! By Heavens, listen to me,
Tchichikoff! I tell you as a friend, and all here present are your friends, and
even his Excellency is present, if I could do it, I would hang thee; by Heavens,
I could hang thee!" Tchichikoff seemed really not to know where he was. "Would
your Excellency believe," continued Nosdrieff, "that when he said to me: 'sell
me your dead serfs,' I nearly burst with laughter. I arrive here, and am told
that he has been purchasing serfs to the amount of three millions worth, with
the purpose of emigrating with them into the Government of Kherson; but how is
he to settle them over? he has been bargaining with me for my dead serfs.
Listen, Tchichikoff, I tell you candidly, and I proclaim it even in the presence
of all, you are the devil's own favourite, his Excellency is present; and what
do you say, Procurator?" But the Imperial Procurator, and Tchichikoff, and the
Governor of Smolensk himself, became so very much confused, that they did not
know where to seek for countenance and what to reply, meanwhile; Nosdrieff,
without paying the least attention to them, continued to address himself to our
hero in a half-inebriated state and most insulting language. "Ah, my fine
fellow, you, you--I shall not leave you, before you have told me for what
purposes you have purchased these dead serfs. Listen to me, Tchichikoff, you
ought to be ashamed of yourself, for you know but too well that you have not a
better and a more candid friend than myself. His Excellency is even present, and
what do you say, Procurator? Your Excellency would not believe how much attached
we are to each other, if you were to say, now, here you are both, and ask me the
question: 'Nosdrieff, upon your honour, who is dearer to you--your own father,
or Tchichikoff?' I would answer unhesitatingly, 'Tchichikoff;' by Heavens I
would. Allow me, my darling friend, to impress a kiss upon you. I hope your
Excellency will allow me to embrace him. Yes, my dear Tchichikoff, pray do not
resist me, allow me to impress but one friendly kiss upon your tender snow-white
cheek!" Nosdrieff was so harshly repulsed with his intended kiss, that he nearly
rolled to the ground. Everyone stepped back, and nobody would listen to him any
more; nevertheless, the words he had spoken about the purchase of dead serfs
were uttered in so loud a tone by him, that every person present, even those in
the farthest corners of the room had heard them, and their attention was
awakened. This news seemed to be so very strange, that all present remained as
if rivetted to the spot, and kept looking at each other for some moments with a
peculiarly statue-like, stupidly curious countenance. Tchichikoff observed that
several ladies exchanged glances full of a malicious expression, and in the
faces of several of them he thought he perceived undeniable signs of insinuation
which considerably increased his embarrassment. It was well known to every one
that Nosdrieff was a merciless story-teller, and that it was nothing unusual
with him to advance the greatest absurdities; but a mortal--it is really
difficult to define the composition of a mortal--whatever the news may be,
provided it is news, he is sure to communicate it immediately to some other
mortal, and if it should be only for the sake of adding, "look ye, what a
falsehood they are speaking about!" and the other mortal inclines with
gratification his ear to listen to it, although he will observe after having
heard it, "Yes, really, it is a shameless falsehood, and not worth the least
credence;" but immediately after he will hasten to meet a third mortal, to tell
everything about it, and exclaim together with a noble indignation, "what a mean
falsehood." And such news soon makes the round of the town; and all the mortals,
however many there might be living in it, are sure to discuss on it to satiety,
and then acknowledge that it was really too base a falsehood and not worth
attention, nor the trouble of speaking about any more. CHAPTER XVI. This
apparently absurd occurrence seemed nevertheless to annoy our hero considerably.
However stupid the words of a fool might be, yet sometimes they are powerful,
enough to disconcert a wise man. He began to feel uncomfortable and ill-at-ease,
like a man who might have accidentally stepped with a pair of patent leather
boots into a neglected London sewer. In a word, he felt very uncomfortable. He
tried not to think of it any more, attempted to cheer himself up again. In order
to distract himself he sat down to play a game of whist; nevertheless, all went
like a wheel out of repair. He played twice the wrong colour, and forgetting the
rule that you don't cut the third time, but leave the chance to your partner, he
did so to the great annoyance of his _vis-Ã -vis_. The President could not
understand at all how his friend, Pavel Ivanovitch, who understood the rules of
the game so well, and who was even an acute player, could make all these
blunders, and put a trump upon his king of spades, upon which card he had
reckoned as upon a wall of stone. The President and the Postmaster, and even the
Commissioner of Police, as a matter of course, passed their friendly jokes upon
our hero at these occurrences, and insinuated that Pavel Ivanovitch must be, nay
was, in love, and that they nearly guessed who had caused all his absence of
mind, and drawing attention from the game. But all these observations made no
impression upon him, and do what they like, they could not succeed in making him
even smile or return their jokes. At supper he was still in the same disposition
of mind, and could not even then rally, notwithstanding that he was placed in
very good company, and that the hateful Nosdrieff had been obliged to leave the
house, because the ladies themselves could not help expressing themselves
scandalised with his conduct. The supper was very excellent, and seasoned with
general gaiety; all the faces which appeared as it were from under the three
branched candelabra, flowers, tarts and bottles, were illuminated with the most
unfeigned pleasure. Military men and civilians, ladies, dress-coats, all became
most amiable, even to affectation. The gentlemen deserted their chairs and
hastened to take the dishes from the hands of the overburthened servants, with
the intention to present them themselves to their fair partners at table. A
dashing colonel presented a plate with liquid sweets to his lady on the point of
his unsheathed sword. Some gentlemen of a sedate and serious age, among whom
Tchichikoff happened to sit, were discussing politics most earnestly, whilst
eating at the same time some fish and meat unmercifully seasoned with vinegar
and mustard. They were conversing on a subject in which he generally liked to
take a lively part; nevertheless, he remained silent, and like a man who seemed
to be much fatigued or annoyed from a long journey, who feels a peculiar dulness
of spirit, and who is incapable of taking any interest in anything. He even did
not wait for the end of the supper, but left the company suddenly, and returned
to his hotel much earlier than he was wont to do. In that small apartment, so
well known to to the reader, with the door barricaded with a chest of drawers,
and with the beetles looking out from the corners occasionally, the disposition
of his mind and soul was so full of uneasiness, in fact as uneasy as the chair
upon which he was sitting. His heart felt sick and oppressed as if from a
tiresome void that was left within it. "I wish the devil had those who imagined
and brought into fashion those infernal balls!" said he, passionately, within
his own heart. "Where-ever did they pick up the silly idea of dancing and
feasting? the whole province has been visited, for three years running, by bad
harvests and general dearth, and they give balls and festivals! What an ill-
timed fancy; to dress themselves up in gaudy paraphernalia! And as if I had not
seen that some of the silly women had wrapped themselves up in shawls worth, a
thousand roubles! And all that at the expense of their poor serfs, or, what is
still worse, at the expense of men like ourselves. It is but too well known, why
a man takes advantage of his position, and injures his soul and conscience;
simply for the purpose of offering to his wife a shawl or some such gaudiness
for the name of which I do not care a fig. "And why is this so? for the
important reason, that some other gossiping body should not have occasion to say
that the wife of the Postmaster or Procurator had a handsome dress on, and for
such pretentions you have to pay down often more than a thousand roubles in hard
cash. The hue and cry, is; 'a ball, a ball, let us rejoice!' balls are really a
nuisance, not at all suitable for the Russian genius, not at all to the taste of
our Russian nature, the devil knows for whom balls are fit; an adult, a
perfectly grown up person will suddenly take it in his head to appear all in
black, laced and dressed up like a young fiend, and begin to fight about with
his legs like a madman. Another again, though standing near his partner, will
turn round to his friend and pretend to speak of things of importance, and still
continue to cut capers like a goat, right and left. "All this is pure monkeyism,
nothing but monkeyism! Because a Frenchman of forty is as childish as he was in
his youth, we Russians ought to be ashamed to imitate him! No, really, after
each ball I cannot help feeling as if I had committed a sin; and I would fain
not even think of it. My head feels absolutely as empty as after a tedious
conversation with a fashionable, who speaks of everything, touches slightly on a
hundred subjects at the time, he will make use of all that he has been
successful enough to pick up in books, be showy, brilliant; but as for his own
imagination, it is incapable of producing anything original, and it is then we
find, that the simple conversation of a common tradesman, who knows his business
well, is more useful; it is then we find how empty and foolish the conversation
of the man of fashion is. "And as for their balls? What good can possibly be
derived from a ball? Let us even suppose for an instance that an author was to
undertake to describe all the scenes and occurrences of the ball room, such as
they really are? Even in his book, it would appear as insipid and foolish as it
is in reality. And pray, what is a ball? Is it moral or is it immoral? The devil
take me if I know what to call it! It is with utter disgust, that one would
throw away the book even, that speaks of, or describes a ball!" It was thus
unfavourably that Tchichikoff expressed himself on balls in general; but it
seemed that another cause of displeasure was deeply involved in these
expressions. His great displeasure was not principally directed against the ball
itself, but rather the occurrence that took place there, and his sudden breaking
down from his enviable position, which made him appear, Heavens knows in what
light in the opinion of the guests assembled, and that he had been playing a
peculiar, strange, and equivocal _rÃ´le_. Of course, looking at the matter in the
light of a man of the world, he saw at a glance, that the whole affair was bosh
and nonsense, that the word of a fool could not harm him, especially now, that
the business itself was completely, satisfactorily and legally terminated. But
man is strange: he was exceedingly provoked by the ill feeling of those, for
whom he had no condescension himself, and of whom he had even spoken in very
strong and cutting terms, ridiculing their vanity and follies. This aggravated
him so much the more, because, after having seriously reflected upon the
subject, he could not deny that he had in a great measure been the cause of
their ill-feeling himself. However, with himself he was not angry at all, and in
this he was right, as a matter of course. We possess all the indulging weakness
to be less severe with ourselves, and vent our anger in preference upon our
neighbour or servants. And thus it was also with Tchichikoff, who soon managed
to find a fellow-creature who had to talk and bear upon his shoulders all that
his angry mood inspired him with. This victim fellow-creature, was Nosdrieff,
and we must confess, that the poor fellow was unmercifully abused for his
interference and indiscretion; the expressions which our hero used at the time
of his anger, was so very strong indeed that this English paper--we are
convinced--could not bear them, and for this excellent reason we beg to omit
them. Yet we may add that the whole race of the Nosdrieff's was wished at the
bottom of the sea, in which even his most distant relations were included.
Tchichikoff continued for some considerable time to remain seated in his
uncomfortable chair, tormented by unpleasant recollections, cursing heartily,
Nosdrieff, his ancestors and descendants, whilst the tallow-candle before him
was melting rapidly down, because the wick was long since covered with a large
black cap, and the light threatened every moment to expire altogether; a dark
and gloomy night stared at him through the window, and was preparing to give
precedence to the break of day, in the distance the hoarse crowing of a few
early cocks became also audible, and in the yet soundly somnolent town, many a
poor and homeless sheep-skin-wearer, might have been seen wandering about
hopelessly and heaving sighs of despair, which unfortunately for old Russia are
threatening to become more and more innumerable. At this particular time, too,
there happened also something unusual at the other end of the town, and which
occurrence threatened to increase the already very unpleasant position of our
hero: namely, through the distant and narrow streets of Smolensk a peculiarly
shaped and antique-looking carriage was ricketting over the pavement in its
approach to the centre of the town; the name and description of this carriage
would have bewildered the cleverest coach-builder of England. It was not like
any of the carriages we are now accustomed to see in the streets of large towns;
it was neither what we call a britchka nor a tarantas, nor was it anything like
a barouche or a cart, but the nearest resemblance it presented, was to an
immense hollowed water-melon, placed upon four wheels. The sides of this water-
melon, or rather its cheeks, since they were to represent the doors of that
carriage, still bore a trace of yellow colour about them, opened and shut very
indifferently, because the handles and locks were in a dilapidated condition,
and were not fastened with screws or nails, but common string. The water-melon
(which reminds us forcibly of the carriage built in five minutes by the clowns
at the Haymarket) was filled up with a variety of pillows of all sizes, bags
containing bread, cakes and pastry. The stand behind was occupied by a sitting
servile creature, in a short grey home-spun cloak, with unshaved beard,
intersected here and there by silvery grey; this servile servant was known by
the name of young Safran. The noise and creaking of the iron hinges and rusty
screws was so loud, that it awakened a sleeping policeman at the other end of
the town, who, suddenly aroused, seized his halberd and shouted out with all his
might, "Who comes there?" but, seeing that nobody was coming, he easily
understood that he had taken the distant rattling noise for somebody
approaching, at the same time he caught upon his coat an insect, which he at
once took close to the lamp-post and executed on the spot upon his nail. After
having thus punished the invader, he returned to his post, laid aside his
halberd, and fell again asleep, according to the custom of the Russian police.
The horses before the water-melon kept falling on their fore-legs continually,
because they had never been shod at all, and because the pavement of a town
seemed to them perfectly strange ground. The old-fashioned vehicle made a few
more turnings in and out of a few more narrow streets, and then turned again
into a perfectly dark lane, at the end of which it passed a dilapidated old
church, and then suddenly stopped before the house next to it, which was
inhabited by the Proto-pope and his wife. A young girl, with her head wrapped in
a large handkerchief, was the first person that alighted from the old coach; she
seized the knocker of the door with both her hands, and began to make as great a
noise with it as a man (young Safran was dragged by his legs from his seat,
because he had plunged himself in a death-like sleep). The dogs of the house
began barking as loud as they possibly could, and the gates were soon after
thrown open, though it took considerable time to get the old vehicle through
them into the court-yard, which was a very narrow one indeed, stocked with logs
of wood, a poultry-yard, and other court-yard incumbrances; the second person
that now alighted from out of the water-melon coach was an old lady, and this
old lady was no one else than her ladyship Korobotchka. The old lady had, soon
after the departure of our hero, felt considerable uneasiness, and, in
consequence, remained under the impression and apprehension that he might have
taken an unwarrantable advantage over her inexperience, and, not having slept
during three consecutive nights, she determined upon coming to town at once,
notwithstanding that her horses were not fit for such a long journey, in order
to ascertain positively what the real market value for dead serfs was, and to
convince herself that she had made no mistake and sold them perhaps--which
heaven forbid--for three times less than their real value. What the further
consequences of her arrival in town were, the reader will perhaps glean from a
conversation between two ladies only. This conversation--but I think it will be
more amusing to leave the dialogue for the following chapter. CHAPTER XVII.
Early in the morning, considerably earlier even than is fashionable to pay
visits in the town of Smolensk, the door of an orange painted house, with
balconies and sky-blue pillars was suddenly thrown open, and a lady, wrapped in
a long silk cloak of a chess-board pattern, rushed hurriedly into the street,
followed by a servant in livery, who wore a cloak with numerous little collars,
and a large gold-laced band ornamented his round and carefully brushed hat. The
lady slipped hastily over the steps, and into the open carriage, which had been
waiting for her already for some time before the principal entrance of the
house. The servant in livery immediately after shut the lady up in the carriage
by closing the carriage-door after her, and having put up the steps, he seized
the straps, which were fixed behind the carriage, and shouted to the coachman,
"drive on!" The lady in the carriage, being the bearer of the latest news, was,
of course, particularly anxious to arrive at her destination with the least
possible delay. Every moment she kept peeping out of the window of her carriage,
and found to her apparently great annoyance that he had still the other half of
her journey to make. Every house which the carriage passed seemed to her to be
unusually longer than ordinarily; the chalk coloured workhouse, with its narrow
and low windows, stretched itself in the most tiresome length, so much so
indeed, that the fair occupant of the carriage could no longer repress her
impatience, but exclaimed, "how provoking, this miserable edifice seems to have
no end at all!" Her coachman had already twice received instructions to drive on
quicker, and she herself shouted twice to him saying: "you are unbearably slow
this morning, Karpuschka! for heaven's sake hasten, hasten on!" At last she had
arrived at her destination. The carriage stopped before a building of wood, only
one story high, but very extensive, painted of a dark slate colour, with white
plaster-work ornaments on the top frames of the windows, with a wooden railing
projecting as far as the pavement, behind which a few scanty-looking poplars
were growing, the leaves of which were covered with imperishable dust, heaped
upon them by continual winds. In every one of the numerous windows, flower-pots
with Dutch tulips, pleasantly relieved the gloomy slate-colour of the house, a
parrot was balancing himself to and fro in his cage, trying to catch with his
beak the ring in it; and two lap-dogs were lying on a cushion in one of the
windows, enjoying the early rays of the rising sun. In this house dwelt the very
intimate friend of the lady who had just arrived in her carriage. The author
feels considerably embarrassed as to the names of the two ladies, because in the
Russian language it happened that the real names of the two ladies conveyed the
most fitting idea of their character, and which it would be nearly impossible to
render properly in English. Many an author is often embarrassed for a name, and
many another not at all, as for ourselves, we must confess, we feel really
considerably so. There are persons that say: "What is there in a name?" Nothing!
With those persons we beg to differ considerably, because we are of the opinion,
and maintain it, that there is much, if not all in a name. To wit, the name of
Nicholas! does it not convey the idea of the most, barbarous, if not the most
unchristian potentate of Europe? reigning over sixty-two millions, nine hundred
ninety-nine thousand, nine hundred ninety-nine other unfortunate barbarians!
(since we are in free England, we beg to exclude ourselves from making up the
even number of sixty-three millions, at which enormous amount the faithful
subjects of his Imperial Majesty have been computed, according to the latest
statistics of the Empire.) Again, the name of Victoria! does it not convey an
idea of the most Christian and lovely Queen that reigns over the most
enlightened, and most liberal nation in Christendom? And since the prestige of
these two names cannot be denied, we feel still more confirmed in our opinion
that there is much, if not all in a name. And for this reason we will also
christen in the most conscientious, and in the most fitting English expression,
the two ladies we ye now about to introduce to our fair readers. Without any
further apologies and preliminaries, then, we will call the lady who received
the early morning visit of her friend, simply and thus, as she was well known in
Smolensk: "the in every respect amiable lady." This name she had acquired in the
most legitimate manner indeed, because she stood on no sacrifices to be always
amiable to the highest degree of amiability. Though, of course, her passionate
feminine character made but too frequent incursions upon her reputation of
perfect amiability; and though in each of her amiable qualities, and especially
words, there seemed pins and needles hidden; and, good Heaven! preserve that
lady who would dare to presume in anything to be the first, for such presumption
was sufficient to make the blood boil in the very heart of the in every respect
amiable lady. But all these amiable qualities were hidden under the most
exquisite taste and fashion. Each of her movements was impregnated and executed
with much gracefulness and taste, she was even very fond of poetry, and knew
also how to incline her head into a musing attitude in a word, all were of
opinion that she was really and in every respect, the most amiable lady in
Smolensk. The other lady, namely, the one that had arrived in her carriage, was
not of such a polyhedrical character, and for that reason we shall call her; the
simply amiable lady. The arrival of the latter lady awakened at once the little
lap-dogs that were lying in the sun; the longhaired AdÃ¨le that was always
entangled in her own wool, and the proud Popuri upon his fine high legs. Both
dogs barking, rushed with their tails in the air towards the ante-room, where
the visiting lady was at once disembarrassed of her silk cloak of a chess-board
pattern, and she appeared now in the reception-room, dressed in the latest
fashion for a morning visit. She wore a light-coloured muslin dress, also of a
fashionable colour and pattern. Scarcely had the in every respect amiable lady
heard of the arrival of her intimate friend, the simply amiable lady, when she
hurried out of her bed-room to receive her. The ladies seized each other's
hands, kissed one another most affectionately, and exclaimed both at the same
time, like two young girls will do on meeting again after having left the
imperial institution, and when their dear mamma has not yet had an opportunity
to whisper to them, that the father of the one is poorer and lower in rank than
the other. The friendly kiss was a loud one, because of the renewed barking of
the two dogs, who were frightened away with a shawl, and both ladies proceeded
at once into the boudoir, which was of course decorated with sky-blue coloured
paper-hangings, curtains and furniture, with numerous rocking chairs and easy
sofas, with an oval table inlaid with mother-of-pearl, a rich mantel-piece,
decorated with malachite nick-nacks, relieved in bronze, while here and there
stood a few sky-blue screens; the ladies were followed by the woolly AdÃ¨le and
the proudly stepping legs. "Here, here, my dear, in this snug little corner!"
said the mistress of the house, whilst seating her guest into the very corner of
her elegant sofa. "That is right! take this cushion to lean upon, and now I am
sure you will feel comfortable!" Saying this, she placed a cushion, embroidered
in wool behind her friend's back; it represented a troubadour with a guitar
slung around his neck, such as are usually embroidered upon canvass: his nose
resembled a ladder, and as for his lips, they were regular squares. "How very
glad I am indeed to see that it is you. I heard a carriage stopping before the
door, but could not for a moment imagine whoever could come so very early; my
chambermaid thought it was the wife of our Vice-Governor, and I said
immediately: how provoking, she is such an insipid woman; and I was on the point
of giving orders to say that I was not at home." Her guest was just on the point
of plunging at once _in medias res_, and communicating to her friend the
important news she had brought; but the sudden exclamation of the in every
respect amiable lady, gave at once another direction to their conversation.
"What a gay-coloured muslin!" exclaimed the in every respect amiable lady, as
she cast a glance upon the dress of the simply amiable lady. "Yes, a very
lively-coloured one indeed. My cousin, Praskovia Fedorovna, however, thinks,
that it would have been prettier, if the checks in it were smaller, and the
little dots in them blue instead of brown. By the bye, I sent the other day, a
dress for my sister, which was really so very charming, that it is quite
impossible to describe it in words; imagine only, my dear, small stripes, as
small as human imagination can possibly fancy them, on a blue ground, and across
these stripes, little eyes and paws--eyes and paws--eyes and paws. In a word,
charming! incomparable! I may really say that anything similar has not yet been
seen before." "My darling love, that is too showy." "Oh, no, my angel, it is far
from being showy." "I can assure you it is!" We must observe here, that the in
every respect amiable lady, was in many other respects also a great materialist,
inclined to contradictions and doubts, and fond of questioning a great many
other things in this world. As for the simply amiable lady, she simply explained
to her friend, that the dress she had sent to her sister, was far from being
showy at all, and continued: "by the bye, allow me to compliment you on a change
in fashion; _volants_ are to be worn no longer!" "Good gracious! what do you
say, out of fashion?" "Yes, indeed, and instead of them we are to wear
festoons." "Surely, that cannot be pretty, festoons? "Festoons, all and nothing
but festoons; the mantles are worn with festoons, the sleeves have festoons, the
epaulettes are made of festoons, below festoons, everywhere festoons." "Oh, I'm
sure it won't be nice, my dear Sophia Ivanovna, if all and everything is to be
worn with festoons." "It is really charming, my own Anna Grigorievna, incredibly
charming; they are sewn in two rows: and above--oh, really, you would be amazed
if I was to describe to you all the particulars. Now then, listen to me and be
astonished: imagine only, the waist is worn still longer, the body very full
over the chest, and as for the corset and the whale-bones in it, it is really
passing belief; the skirt is made very ample all around, as they used to wear
_phisms_ in former days, a little wadding is discreetly introduced behind so as
to make of you a perfectly _belle femme_." "I must confess, this is rather too
much!" said the in every respect amiable lady, with a dignified movement of the
head. "I say as much; it is really going too far!" replied the simply amiable
lady. "Please yourself as to adopting this novelty; for my own part, I am
determined not to submit to this ridiculous innovation." "I thought of doing as
much. Really, when you come to consider it, to what absurdities fashion may lead
you; it is perfectly ridiculous to think of it! I asked my sister to send me the
pattern from St. Petersburg just to look and smile at it; MÃ©lanie, my
dressmaker, however, insisted upon making me a dress like it." "Have you really
got the pattern of it, my dearest?" asked quickly the in every respect amiable
lady, not without visible emotion. "Indeed, I have, since my sister sent it me
the other day." "My darling pet, pray give it to me, I entreat you by all that
is sacred." "Alas, I have promised it already to my cousin, Paskovia Fedorovna.
Would you like to have it afterwards?" "Surely, you don't expect me to accept of
it after Paskovia Fedorovna has had it? Really, that would be rather strange
behaviour on your part, were you to give the preference to others but me." "But
my dear Anna Grigorievna, you seem to forget that she is my cousin." "Heaven
knows what cousin she is to you! on your husband's side perhaps. No, Sophia
Ivanovna, I will not even listen, this is exceeding all bounds. You wish to
slight me; it seems you are tired of me, you wish to break up our acquaintance
and friendship." Poor Sophia Ivanovna was completely at a loss what to do. She
felt acutely, between what burning fires she had placed herself. How silly it
was of her to have boasted of her pattern! She was now ready to prick her
indiscreet tongue with a needle. Fortunately, however, the conversation was
suddenly changed to an even more interesting topic, and she was relieved from
her painful position. CHAPTER XVIII. "And pray, why have you seen or heard of
our darling stranger?" meanwhile inquired the in every respect amiable lady.
"Good Heaven! why am I sitting here like a silly girl! it's really absurd; but
you don't know then, my dear Anna Grigorievna, what the cause of my early
morning visit is?" Here the respiration of the fair visitor became oppressed,
the words threatened to burst forth in rapid succession like a hawk pursuing his
prey, and it was only possible for a person such as her intimate friend was, to
be so inhuman as to stop her overflowing heart. "Whatever intention you may have
of praising and exalting him," she said, in an unusual passion, "I shall mention
and even tell himself if he likes, that he is but a frivolous man, and a very,
very frivolous one indeed." "But listen only, my dear child, what I am going to
confide to you--"

"They have spread the report that he was handsome, and he is nothing of the
kind, he is not handsome at all, and as for his nose--it is the ugliest nose I
ever beheld." "Allow me, but allow me only to tell you, my angelic Anna
Grigorievna, suffer me to tell you all about him! It is a whole history,
understand me well: I came here to give you a biographical sketch of the man who
has created and still creates so great a sensation in Smolensk," her guest spoke
with an expression approaching despair, and in a decidedly entreating,
supplicating tone of voice. "What do you know about him?" "Oh, my darling Anna
Grigorievna, if you could only know the awful position in which I have been
placed, ever since the dawn of this eventful day; only imagine, this morning,
very early indeed, the wife of our Proto-pope, of our worthy Father Kyrilla,
arrives at my house, and would you ever have believed it--our much praised and
gentlemanly stranger--no, I'm sure you could not believe it!" "What, has he been
making love to the Proto-pope's wife?" "Alas, Anna Grigorievna, it would have
mattered little if he had been only doing that; listen now attentively to what
the wife of our worthy Father Kyrilla has told me; she arrived early this
morning at my house--as I told you before--she looked frightened and pale as
death; she at last could open her lips and begin to speak; good Heavens, and how
she spoke! Listen, dear, it is a perfect romance; suddenly, in the midst of a
dark night, when all were fast asleep, a knock is heard at the gate, such a
frightful knock, as it is only possible to imagine; some one shouts from
outside; 'open the gates, open them, or else we shall break them down!' how do
you like the beginning? And especially, how do you like after this, our _fÃªted_
stranger?" "Well, no doubt the pope's wife is young and handsome!" "Not at all,
she is an old woman!" "Ha, ha, ha, delightful! It is then with old women that he
is flirting. After this, I may compliment our ladies in their choice, they have
at last found some one to fall in love with!" "But my dearest Anna Grigorievna,
it is not at all what you fancy. Represent him to yourself as armed from head to
foot in the style of Fra Diavolo, demanding; 'Sell me all your souls (serfs)
that are dead!' Lady Korobotchka answered very reasonably, indeed, by saying: 'I
cannot sell them, because they are dead.' 'No,' says he again, 'they are not
dead, it is my business to know whether they are dead or not; they are not dead,
they are not dead!' he shouts in a passion; in a word, he has created the
greatest scandal imaginable. The whole village was in an uproar, the children
crying, all others shouting, nobody could understand anybody, really, it was
horror! horror! horror! But you would scarcely believe it, my dear Anna
Grigorievna, how all this has upset me, when I came to hear it. "'Dear lady,'
says my chambermaid to me, 'pray look into the looking-glass, you' are quite
pale and discomfited.' "'Never mind the looking-glass now, Maschinka,' I said to
her, 'I must now hasten and tell all to my dear Anna Grigorievna.' At the same
time I immediately ordered my carriage; my coachman, Karpuschka, asks me where
he is to drive me to, and I felt so very much overwhelmed that I could not
articulate a word, I stared him in the face quite foolishly; I think the man
believed me mad at the time. Ah, my dear Anna Grigorievna, if you could only but
imagine how much frightened and distracted I feel even now." "This is rather
strange," said the in every respect amiable lady. "What can these dead souls
mean? I must confess, I cannot imagine or understand anything in this really
strange affair. This is already the second time that I have heard about these
dead serfs; my husband assures me that Nosdrieff told another of his falsehoods;
however, there must be something at the bottom of it." "But, dearest Anna
Grigorievna, can you imagine for a moment my position when I heard of all this.
Listen farther! "And now," continued Lady Korobotchka, 'I really do not know
what am I to do. He obliged me,' says she, 'to sign my name to an apparently
forged document, threw fifteen roubles in bank notes before me, on the table,
and I,' she says, 'inexperienced and unprotected woman, took them.' This is the
whole of the dreadful occurrence! But if you could but I feel, even now!
"Whatever you may say or think about it, I assert that there are no dead serfs
in question; but there is something else hidden." "I agree with you," replied
the simply amiable lady, not without some surprise, and felt immediately an
unconquerable desire to know what might be hidden under this strange affair. She
pronounced the following words in a slow and measured tone of voice: "And what
do you really think is hidden under the pretence of purchasing dead serfs?"
"Pray, tell me first what you think of it?" "Oh, what I think of it--I--I really
must confess, I feel still quite bewildered from the news." "Nevertheless, I
should have very much liked to know what your opinion upon the subject is?"
However, the simply amiable lady could find no opinion to express. She only knew
how to be full of anxiety; but to imagine a complicated supposition was an
impossibility to her, and for that reason, more than any other woman, she was
obliged to have resource to tender friendship and suggestions. "Well, listen
then to me, and I will tell you what these dead souls mean," said the in every
respect amiable lady, and her guest concentrated all her attention upon hearing;
her little ears became, if possible, longer, she rose slightly from her seat,
nearly not sitting nor leaning on the sofa, and regardless of her slight
_embonpoint_, she became suddenly lighter, similar to a feather ready to fly
away at the least breath. "These dead souls are--" pronounced the in every
respect amiable lady. "What, what?" interrupted her guest, full of emotion. "The
dead serfs!" "Oh, speak! for Heaven's sake speak." "They are simply a pretext,
but the real truth is the following; he intends to run away with the daughter of
the Lord-Lieutenant of Smolensk." This conclusion was perfectly sudden and
unexpected, and in every respect very extraordinary. Scarcely had the simply
amiable lady heard the conclusion her friend had arrived at, when she stood
there like a statue, grew pale, pale as death, and this time really and
seriously seemed to be distracted and bewildered. "Oh, good Heavens!" she
exclaimed in a faint voice, "nothing in the world could ever have suggested such
an idea to me!" "As for my part," said the in every respect amiable lady, "I
must inform you, that, scarcely had you opened your lips on the subject, when I
already guessed the whole affair." "And pray, dear Anna Grigorievna, what are we
to think of her Majesty's institution? This young girl has been represented as
innocence personified." "What innocence! I heard her utter such language, as, I
must confess, I would never have had courage to allow to pass my lips, even if I
could have pronounced the words." "Believe me, dear Anna Gregorievna, it is
really heart-rending to behold to what a degree immorality has extended." "The
men seem mad about the girl. As for me, I must acknowledge, I can find nothing
attractive in her--she is unbearably conceited." "She is a perfect statue, my
dearest Anna Grigorievna, and there is not the least expression in her face."
"Oh, she is awfully conceited! Oh, how affected! Good gracious, what
affectation! I don't know who her instructor was, but I don't recollect having
ever seen a young woman so full of affectation as she is!" "My own heart, Anna
Grigorievna! she is nothing but a living statue, and pale as death." "Pray don't
say that, my dearest Sophia Ivanovna; she uses rouge in an unchristian-like
manner." "No, no, my charming Anna Grigorievna, you are mistaken, she is as
white as chalk, chalk of the purest white." "My dearest, let me tell you, that I
sat close to her; I saw rouge, finger thick on her face, ready to fall off like
plaster from a wall." "It is her mother who has taught her, she is a flirt
herself; but as for her daughter, I'm sure she will surpass her." "Pray let me
tell you, listen: I am ready to invoke any saint, or forfeit immediately my
children, my husband, my whole fortune, but I must say, that there was not a
particle, not a shadow of rouge on that young girl's face at the last ball!"
"Oh, how can you say so, Sophia Ivanovna," exclaimed the in every respect
amiable lady, as she clapped her hands together. "Oh, how very strange you are,
my dearest Anna Grigorievna! I cannot help looking with surprise at you!" said
the simply amiable lady, clapping her hands together. It will not appear strange
to our reader, that there was a difference of opinion between the two ladies on
the same subject, and which they had both seen at the same time. There are
really many things in this world, which have such a peculiarity; if they are
looked at by one lady, they will appear as perfectly white as snow, and again,
if examined by another, they will seem red, as red as even Russian cranberries.
"By the bye, I can give you another proof, that she has been using _blanc_
instead of _rouge,"_ continued the simply amiable lady; "now I recollect
distinctly the circumstance, that made me mention my assertion. I was sitting
next to Mr. Maniloff, and said to him, 'Only see, Sir, how pale she looks!'
really, one must be as crazy as our men are to find anything attractive in her.
But how about our gay deceiver, the stranger. Oh, you have no idea how much he
has displeased me! You cannot imagine, my dear Anna Grigorievna, to what degree
he has displeased me." "However, it would seem, that there are ladies to whom he
has not been indifferent." "To me, Anna Grigorievna! I'm sure, you could never
say that of me. Never, never!" "No, my dearest, I do not speak of you, but there
are also other ladies." "Never, never, Anna Grigorievna! Allow me to assure you,
that I know myself very well indeed; had it perhaps been the case with one of
our ladies who presume to play the _rÃ´le_ of unapproachables?" "I beg your
pardon, Sophia Ivanovna! And I beg leave also to tell you, that such calumnies
have never been expressed to me before. He has perhaps been flirting with some
one else, but not with me, certainly not with me, allow me to assure you of
that." "But, my dearest, why do you seem offended? you seem to forget that there
were many other ladies besides ourselves, and even such ladies, who were the
first to seize upon a chair near the door, for the purpose of sitting near him."
After such an exchange of opinions, and especially after the last remarks of the
simply amiable lady, it seemed evident, that a storm would follow; however, to
our utmost surprise, both ladies remained perfectly silent, and absolutely
nothing followed as a consequence. The in every respect amiable lady seemed to
remember, that the pattern of the new dress to be worn with festoons was not yet
in her possession; and as for the simply amiable lady, she also seemed to
recollect, that she had not yet obtained from her intimate friend any distinct
comments upon the discovery about the stranger, which she had revealed to her,
and for these excellent reasons and reflections peace soon again returned
between them. However, it is impossible to say that there was any natural
disposition in the two ladies to create ill-feeling of any kind, and in general
there was nothing in their character that could be really called maliciousness;
nevertheless, and yet accidentally, slight differences would arise between them
in the course of conversation, and inspire them with the innocent wish to pique
one another slightly; it therefore did happen occasionally that the one or the
other would profit by an opportunity, and gratify herself by launching an
insinuation or observation against the other. The cravings of the human heart
are as numerous as incomprehensible in the heart of man, as well as in the heart
of a woman. "However, I cannot understand it at all," said the simply amiable
lady to her friend, "how Tchichikoff, being a stranger here and a traveller,
could venture to enter upon such an expedition alone. It is impossible--I cannot
believe it: he must have some accomplices." "And did you really think he had
none?" "Whom do you suspect? Who could assist him?" "And why should it not be
Nosdrieff himself?" "Now really, could it be Nosdrieff?" "Why not? He is just
the man for such an undertaking. Don't you know that he wanted to sell his own
father, or, better still, gamble for him at cards?" "Goodness gracious! what
interesting news I am going to hear from you! I could never have imagined that
Nosdrieff could have been compromised in this affair or conspiracy." "And I
imagined it from the very beginning." "When you come to think of it, it is
really wonderful what happens in this world. Whoever could have anticipated it,
especially when you recollect that Tchichikoff, since his arrival in Smolensk
has had scarcely sufficient time to look about him, and here he is on the eve of
creating a sensation in our town unequalled in the annals of the Russian Empire
since Ivan Vasilievitch the Terrible. Ah, my dear Anna Grigorievna, if you could
only imagine how terribly frightened and perplexed I feel now, and certainly,
without your sympathy and friendship I should have been on the very brink of my
grave--should indeed. Maschinka, my chambermaid, made the remark that I was as
pale as death. 'Darling ladyship,' says she to me, 'you are as pale as death.
'Maschinka,' was my reply, 'that must not now be a matter of preoccupation with
me.' Such then is the fact. Even Nosdrieff is implicated. Well, I'm sure, I
never could have believed it." CHAPTER XIX. The simply amiable lady felt an
irrepressible desire to ascertain if possible all the details of Tchichikoff's
conspiracy, that is to say the particular day and hour, in fact, she wished to
know a very great deal indeed. The in every respect amiable lady simply declared
that she knew nothing positive on the subject. She did not know how to invent a
falsehood; to anticipate something was another question with her, and then it
was only advanced when her suppositions were based upon intimate conviction.
When, therefore, she felt inwardly convinced in her opinion, it was that she
knew how to defend her argument, and daring indeed would have been the man or
learned advocate who would have tried to dissuade her from her opinion once
fixed, whatever cleverness or learnedness a lawyer might be possessed of; and
though he be able to boast that he could defeat the opinions of any adversary,
he would have stood no chance with our in every respect amiable lady, such would
have been the proofs of intimate conviction which she could have exhibited to
him. Both ladies at last perfectly agreed upon the point, that that which they
had at first laid down as a supposition had still remained a presupposition; and
in that there is indeed nothing surprising. Men of our profession, for example,
learned men, at least such we believe ourselves to be, and nearly on the same
principle as these two amiable ladies; and as a proof of it we may only allude
to our learned critics. In the beginning, such a learned gentleman starts with
his task like a sneaking flatterer; he begins timidly, with moderation, in fact
he begins with the most innocent question: is this not a quotation? or, is this
not a copy from such and such a page? or, does this document not belong to such
and such an age? or, are we not to trace these people as the descendants of such
and such a nation? And now they begin to refer and quote, the authority of
numerous ancient authors; but scarcely have they discovered a point to rest
upon, if ever so unimportant, when he already feels spirited and courageous,
begins to converse freely with the ancient genius, and even addresses questions
to him, which, of course, he thinks proper to answer himself immediately,
forgetting altogether that he begun with a timid presupposition; it now seems to
him that he sees all, that every particular is clear to him; and his review is
concluded with the words--it was thus then that it happened, these people are
the descendants of such and such a nation; and it is, therefore, upon this
particular point that we must base our judgment, and look upon the subject. It
is thus that a novelty is proclaimed, as if from the pulpit, and the new truth
ushered into the world, where it is sure to find numerous followers and
advocates. At the time when the two ladies had so happily and sagaciously
decided this very complication, the Imperial Procurator, with his always
impassible countenance, heavy eyebrows, and winking eyes, entered the reception-
room, and was immediately ushered into the presence of the two intimate friends.
Both ladies, as if for a wager, endeavoured to explain to him, at the same time,
all the particulars of Tchichikoff's conspiracy; they spoke to him of the sale
and purchase of dead serfs, of the projected elopement with the Lord-
Lieutenant's daughter, so that they completely confused his judgment; he stood
there as if riveted to the spot, winking his left eye more than his right, and
passing his pocket-handkerchief across his face and nose, wiping off the snuff;
but he could understand absolutely nothing. The two ladies left the Imperial
Procurator thus standing, and went to carry the news, and create a revolution in
the ancient town of Smolensk. This enterprise they succeeded in carrying out in
no less than half-an-hour. The town was soon in a perfect uproar; every one was
soon revolutionised, but nobody could understand anything about the cause. The
two ladies spread such a mist over the eyes of all, that all, especially the
civilians, became, as it were, petrified for some time. Their position, in the
first moments, was similar to that of a sleepy schoolboy, whose comrades, taking
advantage of his somnolence, had risen earlier, and placed an hussar in his
nose, namely, a small paper cornet, containing snuff. Whilst fast asleep, he
inhales all the snuff through his nostrils with the ease of a snorer; he awakens
suddenly, jumps from his bed, looks about like a fool, rubs his eyes repeatedly,
and cannot make out where he is, and what has happened to him; he then only
perceives that it is late, and that the rays of the sun are shining brightly on
the wall of his room; he hears the laughter of his school-fellows, hiding
themselves in the corners, the daylight entering his window, shining over the
dark forest in the distance--hears the thousand voices of birds gaily humming in
the garden--sees the silvery stream beneath, with its pleasant footpaths,
planted on either side with their tall poplars--beholds numerous other little
children playing about, and ready to plunge into the water for a bath; and then
only, and at last, he feels convinced that he has had a hussar placed in his
nose. Such was exactly, at first, the position of all the inhabitants of any
note in the town of Smolensk on that eventful morning. Every one of them stopped
suddenly short like sheep, and opened their eyes widely. Dead serfs, the Lord-
Lieutenant's daughter, and Tchichikoff were continually buzzing round them, and
confusing their heads in a most extraordinary manner; and, later only, after the
first stupefaction was over, they seemed to distinguish and separate the one
from the other. They began to question themselves and feel angry, because they
saw that they could not explain the affair to themselves any way. "What does
this parable really mean? what parable are these dead serfs? there is no logic
in dead serfs, how could any one think of buying dead serfs? where could such a
fool be met with, and for what speculation could he purchase them and thus
invest his capital? and to what end and for what purpose could dead serfs be
made available? and why is the Lord-Lieutenant's daughter mixed up in the
affair? If he intended eloping with his Excellency's daughter, why can he have
bought these dead serfs? and if he wanted only to purchase dead serfs, why
should he want to run away with his Excellency's daughter? surely, he did not
intend to present her with dead serfs at their nuptials! But what is the
nonsense they have now spread all over the town? what is the meaning for all
this? for scarcely has a person had time to turn and look about, when they
already concoct a whole history on his account; well and good if there was any
sense in it--however, they have spread the news, and certainly there must be
something at the bottom of it. But what cause, what reason can there be for
these dead serfs? I really cannot see any reason or cause for them whatever. It
is really bewildering! maddening!" In a word, there was a talk about it all over
the town, a regular round of talking, about the dead serfs and his Excellency's
daughter, about Tchichikoff and the dead serfs, about his Excellency's daughter
and Tchichikoff, and all was soon in a maze. It seemed that the hitherto
slumbering town rose like a buoyant whirlpool. All the old home-keeping men and
women, who had not divested themselves of their morning-gowns nor had been in
the streets, heaven knows for how long time, now suddenly began to stir about
and swear, the one at the tailor for having made his coat too narrow, the other
at the bootmaker for having made his boots too tight, a third at the neglect and
drunkenness of his servants, and so forth. All those who had long ceased to
receive or go into company, and were known only accidentally to each other, now
suddenly made their appearance again in the world, as if they had risen from the
dead; in fact, all those who could not even be enticed with turtle soup or a
sturgeon feast, or with any other dainties that melted in the mouth; in a word,
it was now proved beyond a doubt that the ancient town of Smolensk was a large
and well populated town. The streets were crowded with old-fashioned droschkies
of every description--in a word, the porridge began to boil over. At another
time, and under different circumstances, similar reports would not have
attracted the least attention; but the town of Smolensk had been, as it was for
some time, deprived of any novelty. Three months had passed away without the
occurrence of anything like _commÃ©rage_, which, as it is well-known, is to a
town as necessary as supplies to an army. In the circles of the gossips of
Smolensk, there arose suddenly two perfectly distinct opinions, and in
consequence two perfectly distinct parties were formed; the party of the men and
the party of the women. The party of the men, the most foolish of the two,
turned their attention to the dead serfs. The party of the women again, busied
themselves exclusively with the elopement of the Lord-Lieutenant's daughter. In
the party formed by the women, we must observe to the credit of the ladies, that
there was considerably more order, regularity, and perspicuity. They seem to
have been born to be excellent and careful managers. All soon assumed with them
a lively and orderly appearance, presented itself in distinct and visible forms,
explained itself, freed itself from every doubt; in a word, all seemed as
perfect as a picture. It was proved that Tchichikoff had already been in love
with the fair girl for some time, and that they had met by appointment on
several occasions at night in the garden by moonlight, and that his Excellency
himself would have consented to their marriage, because Tchichikoff was as rich
as a Jewish banker, if it had not been for Tchichikoff's wife, whom he had
deserted (how they had managed to find out that our hero was married, no one
could tell), and that his wife, who was tormented by an unreciprocated passion
for him, had addressed the most entreating letter to the Lord-Lieutenant, and
that Tchichikoff, finding that the father and mother would never consent to
their union, determined upon an elopement. In some other circles, the same
affair was commented upon with a few slight deviations. It was said that
Tchichikoff had no wife at all, but that he, as a clever man of the world, and
determined to carry his object, undertook, with the object in view, of obtaining
the hand of the daughter, to make the beginning with the mother, and that there
existed between them a secret sentimental _liaison_, and after this success with
the mother, he had stepped forward to demand the hand of the daughter; but the
mother, fearing or alarmed lest an offence against religious principles might be
committed, and feeling within her own heart the pangs of remorse, refused his
demand peremptorily, and that in consequence of this refusal, Tchichikoff had
determined upon an elopement. To all this, were added many explanations and
improvements as the reports spread by degrees, until at last they were known and
commented upon, even in the narrowest streets of Smolensk. The lower classes of
society, in Russia at least, are very fond of talking of the affairs of the more
elevated classes, and for that reason, the same subject was even discussed in
such houses where the inhabitants had never heard, or seen anything of
Tchichikoff before, and of course they made new additions and improvements. The
subject became every moment more and more embellished, and every new day added
considerably to the perfections of its forms, until at last it was transmitted
with all its perfections to the ears of her Excellency, the wife of the Lord-
Lieutenant of Smolensk. Her Excellency, as a mother of a family, as the first
lady in the town, ultimately as a lady who never suspected or anticipated
anything similar, felt perfectly insulted by these rumours, and legitimately
flew into a passion. The unhappy _blondine_ had to submit to a very unpleasant
_tÃªte-Ã -tÃªte_, indeed such a one as perhaps a young girl of sixteen years of
age, never underwent before. Streams of questions rapidly flowed from the lips
of the angry mother, followed in succession by strict examination, reproaches,
threats and exhortations, so that the poor young girl began to cry bitterly
without being able to understand a word of the real causes of her mother's anger
and indignation. The porter at the lodge also received positive instructions
never to admit for the future, under any circumstances or pretences, the
gentleman calling himself Tchichikoff. CHAPTER XX. Having, as it were, finished
their affair with her Excellency, the ladies felt inclined to join the party of
the gentlemen, with the view of bringing them round to their own opinion, and
they continued to affirm that the alleged purchase of dead serfs was nothing
else but a scheme to divert attention from his real intentions, and thus more
successfully to accomplish the projected elopement. Many of the gentlemen were
even gained over, and persuaded to join the female party, notwithstanding the
bitter reproaches that were addressed to them by their own party and comrades,
who called them old women and petticoat worshippers, which allegations, as is
well known, are very offensive to any gentleman. But, however strong and
obstinate the remaining coalition of the men was, their party was far from being
so well organised as that of the ladies. With them all was somehow irregular,
rough, loose, not well at all; their heads were full of confusion, partiality,
contradiction; their thoughts tormented by doubts and suspicions--in a word,
the, in every respect, empty nature of the men appeared to be in the greatest
disorder, a _naturel_, at the same time rough and heavy, unfit for household
matters, nor for the more tender impressions of the heart, suspicious, indolent,
full of continual doubts and eternal apprehensions. They maintained most
obstinately that all was stuff and nonsense, that the elopement with his
Excellency's daughter was more likely to be undertaken by a dashing hussar, but
not by a peaceable civilian; and that Tchichikoff was not the man to carry out
such a plan, so full of madness; that the women were all silly, and had got up a
false alarm; that the real object upon which they had to turn their exclusive
attention were the dead serfs themselves, for it was with them that the secret
lay buried; but what this secret was, the devil alone knew, at any rate in their
opinion, it was something awful. Why it was so dreadful, so awful, in' the
opinion of the gentlemen, we shall know at once. By a decree of his Majesty the
Emperor Nicholas I, another Lord-Lieutenant, or Governor had been appointed for
the province of Smolensk, and the present one recalled to St. Petersburgh; such
an ukase causes in Russia a thorough change of administration and appointments,
and for this reason it had the most alarming effect upon the nervous and moral
system of the Imperial _employÃ©s_; Courts of Inquiries would be held in all
branches of administration, many of them had the prospect before them of being
dismissed, whilst others ran the risk of seeing themselves utterly stripped of
their little profits under the new head of administration. And really, some of
them thought, "if the new Governor was to know all our little trespasses, it
would be quite sufficient to effect our complete disgrace, and perhaps even
banishment would be the consequence." The Superintendent of the Imperial
Hospitals grew suddenly pale; heaven knows what thoughts flashed across his
mind; did these dead serfs mean, perhaps, that all those people who died lately
in great numbers from cholera and various fevers in the Imperial Hospitals and
other places, for want of proper and careful sanitary measures, and was
Tchichikoff, by chance, an Imperial Attorney, or Commissioner sent by the
Governor-General to hold a secret Court of Inquiry. He communicated this opinion
to the President of the Council. The President answered that this supposition
was absurd, and then immediately grew pale himself as he put to himself the
following question:

"But if these serfs whom Tchichikoff has been purchasing were really dead, he
has caused us all to legalise the transaction, and has obliged me to sign the
contract of sale as Pluschkin's agent, and if the whole transaction is reported
with all its particulars to the Governor-General, how then? And if the Governor-
General lays all the particulars of this transaction before His Majesty the
Emperor? I shudder at the thought." He communicated these apprehensions to the
one and to the other, and immediately after, the one and the other grew pale as
death. Fear is like a contagious disorder; it communicates itself in an instant.
All the Imperial _employÃ©s_ suddenly discovered in themselves such
transgressions as did not even exist in reality. The words "dead serfs" spread
fear and terror all around, which were instantaneously communicated to all who
were even in the slightest degree compromised in the transaction; they began
also to suspect that it might be an allusion to some recent occurrences in which
a few peasants died suddenly, and were buried hurriedly without an inquest being
held on their bodies. The first occurrence was an encounter between some
tradesmen from Great Novgorod and some men of the same calling from Little or
Nishni-Novogorod, who had come to visit the fair held at that time in Smolensk.
After having done a good business in town, the Great Novogorodians gave a
regular Russian feast to their friends the little Novogorodians, seasoned with
all the foreign improvements of kitchen and cellar. The feast, however, ended in
a regular fight The petty jealousies existing between these two very important
towns determined the Little Novogorodians to resent an old quarrel which had
been brought again on the _tapis_ as regarded the pre-eminence of the two towns,
in a commercial sense. They rushed upon the Great Novogorodians, determined to
have their lives; but the result was, that they got fearfully ill-used by the
Great Novogorodians, who disfigured their heads, faces and sides in a most
merciless manner, and proved that the fists of some of the defunct Great
Novogorodians were of an extraordinary size and hardness. One of the defeated
combatants had fared very badly indeed, and narrowly escaped losing his life;
however, he had got off only after having had his nose flattened like a crumpet,
so much so indeed that there remained but a vestige of a nose on his face. The
merchants confessed to the authorities that they had been only jesting; but it
was rumoured about that in this serious conflict, four of the Imperial
peacemongers had lost their lives. However, the real loss of life was kept in
the dark, and the inquiries that were held by the proper authorities went to
show that the deceased Novogorodians had died from the effects of suffocation
and they were at once buried as suffocated people. The other occurrence, which
happened nearly at the same time, was the following: Some crown serfs (property
of the Emperor) of the not unimportant village of Vladomirsk, had joined their
brethren and neighbours in the adjoining village of Volkonsk, for the purpose of
taking revenge upon an imperial steward, who resided between the two villages,
and who not only ill-treated them in the most barbarous manner, but even seduced
by threats and intimidation, their wives and daughters. This same imperial
steward, Drobriaschkin by name, had been observed to pay too frequent visits in
both villages, and at unusual hours, which was thought highly improper by the
peasants for an imperial manager, and head of the country police. It, therefore,
seemed to them that their magistrate had too many weaknesses for their wives and
daughters. However, nothing positive could be proved against him, although the
imperial serfs had stated in their depositions, that they had seen their
magistrate roaming about in the neighbourhood like a cat, and that they had more
than once given him fair warning, and that on one occasion they had even beaten
and driven him out of the hut of one of their worthiest elders, where he had
stealthily entered, Heaven knows for what purpose. The magistrate merited, of
course, chastisement for the weaknesses of his heart, and ought not to have
imagined, that because he was an imperial manager, he could presume to trample
upon the affections of imperial serfs; on the other hand again, the peasants of
the imperial villages of Vladomirsk and Volkonsk, could also not have been
justified in murdering their magistrate for his weaknesses of the heart,
provided the charge could have been proved against one or all of them. However,
this occurrence also remained in the dark, because all matters in which the
police and people of high rank are interested, remain in Russia usually
enveloped in darkness; nevertheless, the country magistrate, the imperial
manager, was found murdered on the high road, his official coat was torn into
rags, and as for his face and body, it was perfectly impossible to identify them
as having once harboured the haughty and tyrannical soul of a Dobriaschkin. The
whole occurrence, with all its particulars, was thrown into the proper courts of
justice, and ultimately transmitted to Smolensk, where the high justices of the
Crown came to the following conclusion:

"Whereas it cannot be proved who of the imperial serfs are the actual murderers
of the dead man, and as there are many peasants compromised in the crime, and
whereas Dobriaschkin was now a dead man, there could arise not the least
advantage to him, in having judgement given in his favour. "And, whereas all the
peasants compromised in the deed were still alive, it was of the greatest
importance to them, that judgment should be given in their favour; it was
therefore decided that the following judgment or verdict should be returned;

"That the imperial manager and magistrate, Dobriaschkin, was himself the cause
of his death, in making unjustifiable pretensions upon the imperial serfs of the
villages of Vladomirsk and Volkonsk, and that he died suddenly from an
apoplectic stroke, whilst returning home in his sledge." The imperial men who
had thus settled these and similar occurrences, thought at the time that their
decisions were just and right, but now, and it is incomprehensible why, they
thought that the present dead souls had some reference to these past
occurrences. To these past events which seemed to them now more serious than
ever before, additional difficulties could arise, for, if it was to happen, that
just at this time when all the _employÃ©s_ of the Crown seemed so seriously
embarrassed, the new Governor-General was to receive at once two more
informations in the shape of the following documents. The first, containing a
report of investigations and proofs that a manufacturer of false bank-notes was
residing in Smolensk, hiding himself under different assumed names, and that a
strict investigation should be made at once to bring the culprit to light; the
greatest discredit would be thrown at once upon the _employÃ©s_ whose duty it
would have been to prevent the occurrence. The other document, again might
contain the following communication from the Governor-General of the adjoining
province; whereas a murderer has escaped the hands of justice, and taken refuge
in the Government of Smolensk, It devolves upon the Imperial _employÃ©s_ of the
Province of Smolensk to take at once the necessary steps for his immediate
apprehension, and stop all such persons who cannot legitimate themselves with
the necessary documents and passports. These two imaginary, or perhaps, true
documents, completely bewildered all. Their former apprehensions were completely
lost sight of. Of course, it was perfectly impossible for them to suspect for a
moment that these documents could have any reference, whatever, to their friend
Tchichikoff, however, as they at last began to reason a little each for himself,
it struck them at last that they could not positively tell, who and what
Tchichikoff really was, and that he had given them a very indistinct account of
himself, though he had told them, that he had suffered much for the just cause
whilst in active service. All this seemed to them now, not at all dear, or
explicit at all, and especially when they recollected that he had told them
also, that he had many enemies ready to feed on his very life's blood, it was
then that they became still more thoughtful and pre-occupied; it must therefore
be that his life was in danger, consequently he must have been doing something
to put himself into such a jeopardy--and now the question arose among them, who
was Tchichikoff really? Of course, he could not be a manufacturer of false bank
notes, nor could he be a murderer, because his appearance was in every respect
that of a gentleman; nevertheless, who and what is he? And now only it was that
the imperial _employÃ©s_ of Smolensk addressed themselves the question, which
they ought to have asked immediately in the beginning of their acquaintance with
our hero. It was resolved upon, that some more inquiries should be made about
him, from those persons from whom he had bought those dead serfs, thus to
ascertain, if possible, what the nearer particulars of these purchases were, and
what they would have to understand by the term of dead serfs, to know whether he
had not inadvertently perhaps allowed a few remarks, or hints to slip from his
tongue, of what his real intentions were, and if some of the contracting parties
did not know something more positive about him. First of all they applied to
Lady Korobotchka, but from her they did not learn much; he had purchased her
dead serfs for the paltry sum of fifteen silver roubles, had promised to buy
some feathers and honey from her, and had stated that he was a contractor for
the supply of tallow and grease, and for that reason was no doubt an impostor,
for she had had already dealings with a man, who bought feathers and honey, and
contracted for the supply of tallow and grease, and that that man had taken them
in one and all, and cheated the wife of the proto-pope of two hundred silver
roubles. Whatever else she said on the subject, was nothing but a repetition of
her first statement, and the _employÃ©s_ came to the conclusion that Lady
Korobotchka, was nothing but a stupid, gossiping old woman. Maniloff declared,
that for his friend, Pavel Ivanovitch, he was ready to be as responsible as for
himself, that he would sacrifice all his property if he could but possess the
hundredth part of the good qualities of his friend Pavel Ivanovitch, in fact, he
spoke of him in the most flattering terms, adding a few of his opinions on
friendship and intimacy; this he did of course while shutting gently his sweet
eyes. These expressions, of course, convinced the _employÃ©s_ of the tenderness
of Maniloff's heart, but were not at all calculated to enlighten them on the
subject in question. Sobakevitch affirmed, that Tchichikoff was a honest man,
and that the serfs he had sold him were picked men, and in every respect
perfectly alive; but that he could not be held responsible for what might happen
in the course of time, that if they were to die in consequence of their
emigration, which would be fraught with difficulties and dangers, that this
would not be his fault, but the decrees of Providence; and as for fever and
other mortal diseases, they were prevalent all over the world, and he knew of
instances where such diseases had devastated a whole village in three days. The
imperial gentlemen had recourse to one last resource, though, we must confess,
not a very gentlemanly act; though there are instances when it is done through
the medium of an acquaintance with the servants of the persons interested; they,
therefore, hit upon the idea of questioning Tchichikoff's attendants, asking
them indirectly what they know of the former life, habits, and fortune, of their
lord and master; but even with them they found themselves disappointed.
Petruschka communicated to them only the peculiar perfume of his bed-chamber; as
for Selifan, he confided to them that his master had been in the imperial
service, and had done his duty in the excise; but this is all they could learn
from him. This latter class of people, namely, servants, have very peculiar
habits, and might, in some degrees, stand a comparison with Irishmen. If you ask
them a direct question, they are sure to give an indirect answer--never
recollect anything--their mind is so much confused that they will simply answer,
'that they knows nothing about anything;' but if you happen to deviate from your
original question, and speak of something else, they are sure to return to the
original question; and, whether you like it or not, they will give you all the
desired particulars, even such as you do not care to listen to. All the
researches and inquiries of the imperial men, proved in the end, that they had
no positive information about Tchichikoff; nevertheless, they came to the
conclusion that he must be something. They decided, at last, upon talking the
matter over once more, and settle, definitely, how to act in this very
complicated affair--what measures they would have to take in order to ascertain,
positively, who Tchichikoff really was; whether he was a man who ought to be
apprehended at once as a malefactor, or whether he was a man who had the power
and authority to seize and apprehend them as malefactors. For this purpose it
was agreed upon, that they should assemble all the next day at the house of the
Commissioner of the Police, who, as is well known to our readers, was the father
and benefactor of all the inhabitants of the town of Smolensk. CHAPTER XXI. The
next day the _employÃ©s_ or officers of the crown, holding various appointments
in the public offices of Smolensk, mustered in great numbers at the house of the
Commissioner of Police, who was, as we have said before, the father and
benefactor of all the inhabitants of the town. These gentlemen had now an
opportunity of making the observation, that they had considerably changed in
appearance since the preceding day, and that they looked pale and discomfited in
consequence of their mental exertions. And really, the appointment of a new
Governor-General, the two documents containing such very serious information,
coupled with the present occurrence and the widely-spread reports about those
dead serfs, were sufficient in themselves to effect such changes in their
countenance and bodily appearance, for the coats of some of them fitted them by
far too comfortably. All had given way: the President of the Council was
changed, and the Inspector of the Imperial and other hospitals seemed no longer
the same man, and the unflinching Procurator even had undergone an alteration,
nor could a certain Semen Ivanovitch, whose real family name never transpired,
be called the same man; he had the mania of showing off most cleverly a large
finger ring which he wore on his first finger, both to ladies and gentlemen, but
now he seemed not even to be aware of its being still on the same finger. Of
course, there were some few, as there always will be, stout-hearted men among
them; but their number was very limited indeed. The Postmaster-General seemed
the only one who had not given way to the prevalent panic, which was evident in
the countenances of all the others present. He alone had not undergone the least
change in his continually even character, and continued to behave as he was wont
to do on similar occasions, by repeating his customary phrases. "We know you,
know you well, and what you are, you new Governor-General! Men of your
description are changed and appointed three and four times in the course of a
few years, but as for me Sirs, I have been sitting for these last thirty years
in the same place." To this and similar observations, the others invariably used
to reply:

"'Tis all very fine for you to _sprechen sie deutsch_, Ivan Andreitch; your duty
is a posting one; to receive and dispatch letters is your department, the only
chance you have, is perhaps to close your office an hour sooner than you have a
right, and extract late postages from our tradesmen, making them believe that
you have a half-holiday, and that if you forward their letters, it is a favour
you show them, or you send off a letter-bag which you ought to have kept back.
Certainly with such easy tasks anybody could be a saint. And besides, though you
are a married man, you have but one son and heir, but look upon me and my
Praskovia Fedorovna, Heaven has blessed us uncommonly, for with every year our
family increases, and it is either another Praskovia or another Fedor, we have
to welcome to this world. No, no, Procurator, if you were in our position, you
would sing another tune." Thus the others spoke to the Postmaster-General. In
the council assembled, at the present moment, it was very remarkable that there
was a total absence of that indispensable requirement which is usually called
common sense and order. And here, in this instance the author feels himself
called upon to pass the observation, that somehow or another, we Russians are
not fit for public meetings, and have no talent for public speaking. In all our
public assemblies, beginning from the peasants' peaceful gatherings, up to the
most scientific and learned committees, if there is not one leading head among
them to guide them all, it is sure to happen that confusion occupies the chair.
It is very difficult for us to say why it is thus; no doubt, such is the
character of the nation, and the only successful assemblies which we know of,
are those, which are called together for the purposes of general enjoyment, such
as eating, drinking, and dancing, as is customary in club-houses, and Vauxhalls
--a foreign introduction. But as for readiness and disposition, we are always
ready, feel always ready for anything that is new. We are always ready, and at
the first hint given, rush forward to establish benevolent institutions;
institutions for the promotion of industry, agriculture, and heaven knows what
description of institutions we are not ready to support. The object in view
seems sublime, but there is this evil, the object remains in view, _en
perspective_. It might perhaps be attributed to our sanguine beginning which
makes us fancy that the object in view is accomplished by its beginning. As an
example we may here allude to a committee that was formed in the very town of
Smolensk for the speedy relief of the peasantry suffering from famine. This
committee had the laudable intention of affording considerable and immediate
relief to the poor sufferers, and for that reason large subscriptions were made
by the principal inhabitants. The gentlemen who had promoted this laudable
undertaking resolved at once, that a grand dinner should be given to the
subscribers, and in honour of the promoters, including the high notables of the
town; this public dinner absorbed the half of the money subscribed for the poor
sufferers; for the remainder of the money, a splendidly furnished house was
hired for the exclusive use of the gentlemen forming the committee, including
fire and attendance for their lordships, and the result of the munificent
subscriptions showed that there were about five roubles and a half to be divided
among a few hundred hungry sufferers, and in the division of this sum, there
were a few of the gentlemen forming the benevolent committee who could not
agree, and every one gave his reason why! The committee at present assembled had
met for quite a different purpose; it was formed in consequence of unavoidable
necessity. No starving sufferers were here the object. The question concerned
every man present personally; the question was one threatening woe to all, it
was therefore indispensable that unanimity should reign predominant. The result
was far from being satisfactory. Saying nothing about the difference of
opinions, which is natural to any assembly; in the opinion of the council thus
assembled, there was an undefinable inconsistency prevalent, and loudly
expressed: the one said "that Tchichikoff was the manufacturer of the false bank
notes," and then immediately added, "however, I might be mistaken;" another
insisted upon it "that Tchichikoff was the private secretary, and the right-hand
of the new Governor-General," and then concluded with the observation--"however,
I could not swear to it, for it is not stamped on his forehead, that he is the
man I take him to be." As to the supposition that he might be the murderer in
disguise, all pronounced unanimously their disbelief; because they found, that
excepting his personal appearance, which bespoke him to be a well disposed
gentleman, there had been nothing in his manners or language to justify them in
suspecting him of being such a mean and criminal offender. Suddenly, the
Postmaster-General, after having remained for several minutes buried in his
usual musings and reflexions, whether in consequence of a sudden inspiration
that seemed to overcome him, or from any other cause, exclaimed quite
unexpectedly--"do you know, gentleman, who this man is?" The voice in which he
pronounced these words had something of a terrifying tone, for it made all
present startle, and shout at the same time--"who is he?" "Gentlemen, this man
is--it is nobody else but Capitan Kopeikin himself!" And when all in one voice
asked again--"but who is the Capitan Kopeikin?" the Postmaster General said:

"So you do not know who the Capitan Kopeikin is?" All answered at once "that
they did not know who the Capitan Kopeikin was, nor had they ever heard of him
before." "Capitan Kopeikin," continued the Postmaster General, as he opened his
snuff-box only half-way for fear, lest one or the other of his neighbours should
venture to put his fingers in it, the cleanliness of which he very much
suspected. "Capitan Kopeikin," said the Postmaster, after having had already his
pinch of snuff, "if I was to tell you who he is, it would be long and
interesting enough for a novel." All present expressed a wish to know the
history of the Capitan, because they took it for granted it would be that of
Tchichikoff himself; and the Postmaster-General announced his readiness to
comply with their request, and began in the following terms;--

"Capitan Kopeikin was, at the time I am speaking of, one of the most valiant
officers in the Russian service. In his last campaign against the Turks he
stood, with his brave company, before the very gates of Adrianople, where he
lost an arm and a leg, swearing at the same time that it was a shame on the part
of the commanding generals to prevent them entering Adrianople as conquerors,
and proceeding at once to Constantinople, which would have been a mere joke for
them, and which they would have eventually to do. However, peace was proclaimed
at Adrianople, and with one leg and one arm less he proceeded.".... "But pardon
me, Ivan Andreitch," the Commissioner of Police, interrupted him, "before you
proceed any farther with the history of your Capitan Kopeikin, allow me to
observe to you that our stranger, Tchichikoff, boasts of very strong and
healthy-looking legs and arms, and, according to your own words, Capitan
Kopeikin, lost of each one, before the very gates of Adrianople.".... Here the
Postmaster-General shouted out, and struck himself a violent blow at his
forehead, calling himself in public, and in the presence of all assembled, "a
stupid old ass." He could not explain it to himself, how a similar circumstance
did not strike his attention at the very beginning, and he confessed that the
old proverb was perfectly true, that a Russian was very strong in after-
thoughts. However, a few minutes later, he tried immediately to amend his
blunder, and if possible to get out of the scrape in which he had placed
himself, saying, that at the last Universal Exhibition in England, where
mechanism had been carried to the highest perfection, a certain Mr. Brown had
invented a pair of mechanical legs, which, if touched in a particular place,
where an invisible spring was fixed, would carry a man, Heaven knows how far, so
far indeed, that it would be perfectly impossible to find him again anywhere.
However, this explanation was not sufficient to make them believe that Capitan
Kopeikin and Tchichikoff were the same person; and they agreed that the
Postmaster-General's explanations were too far fetched. After this last
suggestion it will not seem surprising at all that the gentlemen assembled began
to reflect more seriously on the subject; however, after a little while they
began to rally again, finding that their imagination was at a loss for something
more probable. Thinking, and thinking again, and after mature reflections, they
came to the conclusion, that it would be advisable to question Nosdrieff on the
subject; as he had been the first to bring the dead serfs on the tapis, and as
he seemed to be in every respect on very intimate terms with Tchichikoff, it was
consequently clear to them, that he was the most likely person to give them some
more positive information regarding Tchichikoff's past life; they therefore
decided on seeing and questioning Nosdrieff without any further delay. CHAPTER
XXII. This resolution, the last they had come to, was a very strange one indeed,
because they knew perfectly well that Nosdrieff was a professed story-teller,
and it was impossible to believe a word of what he said, and that he could in no
way be depended upon even in the merest trifle; nevertheless, and perhaps for
that very reason, they rushed away to have recourse to him. Humanity is strange
indeed! Many a man doubts Providence, but believes steadfastly that if the
bridge of his nose itches, he is sure to die soon; he will leave unnoticed the
creation of a genius, dear as noon-day, full of consistencies, perfect in its
simplicity and truth, to throw himself upon the humbug invented or advanced by a
charlatan, and believe and trust in it blindly, and exclaim at the same time,
"This is the real representative of the secrets of the heart!" or, having never
paid in his life a copek to a physician, he will in the extremest case apply to
an old woman-quack, who cures with simples and incantations like a witch, or who
boils down some drugs, which, heaven knows why, he fancies to be the very remedy
for his complaint. Of course, and in some degree the imperial _employÃ©s_ might
in many respects be excused, for they really were in one of the most unpleasant
and embarrassing positions, as regarded their character and reputation. The
drowning man, it is said, catches even at a straw, because at the time of his
danger he has not the faculty of judging that a fly only could perhaps save its
life on a straw, and that, as for himself, he weighed at least his twelve to
sixteen stone, if not more; however, this reflection seems not to occur to the
drowning man, and for that reason he catches at a straw. Thus it was also with
our gentlemen assembled; they at last resolved on catching at Nosdrieff. The
Commissioner of Police dropped him a line instantly, inviting him to pass the
evening with them, and his assistant courier in his long top-boots and rosy
cheeks, rushed immediately out into the street, to take the message to
Nosdrieff. Nosdrieff was engaged on very important business; for four
consecutive days he had not left his room; he permitted no one to quit the
house, and received his dinner through the window; in a word, he had grown
feeble and emaciated. His business demanded the most persevering attention; it
consisted in the selection of from more than ten dozen packs of cards, of one
select pack, upon which he might be able to depend as upon his most intimate
friend. The work he had before him was sufficient to last him yet for two weeks
longer; for the course of this time, Porphir had received instructions to take
particular care of the young dog, and to wash him three times a day with a
peculiar brush and plenty of soap. Nosdrieff was very angry indeed that any one
should have come to disturb his solitude; at first he refused to listen at all
to the Commissioner's messenger, but when he read the P.S. which informed him,
that it was more than likely that the evening party would be attended by a
novice, and that there would be a little gambling, he dressed himself
immediately, and left his solitude to comply with the invitation. The
appearance, testimony, and suppositions of Nosdrieff presented such
contradictory evidence that the gentlemen of the council were completely thrown
out of their latest conclusion on the subject of their important investigations.
Nosdrieff was one of those men for whom suppositions and doubts did not exist,
and whatever extent of indecision and timidity was perceptible in their
conjectures, it was met by him with as much perseverance and conviction, and he
answered every one of their inquiries without stammering even once, nor feeling
in the least embarrassed. He affirmed that Tchichikoff had bought dead serfs for
a considerable amount, and that he himself had sold him some, because he could
not see any harm in doing so. Upon the question, whether he did not believe him
to be a spy sent from St. Petersburgh to collect secret information regarding
the administration of Smolensk, Nosdrieff answered, that he was confident that
his friend Tchichikoff was a spy in the pay of the government, because, said he,
when we were school-fellows we used to call him the _fiscal_, but at the same
time, he got many a sound thrashing for it from us, and from myself in
particular. "I now remember a circumstance when we had so very much ill-used him
that he was obliged to go home, and have immediately two hundred and forty
leeches applied to his temples"--that is to say, he intended to make it forty,
but the two hundred additional slipped from his tongue in spite of himself. When
he was asked whether he did not think that Tchichikoff was the manufacturer of
false bank notes, he answered in the affirmative, and at the same time told them
an anecdote of the great cleverness of Tchichikoff, saying, that it once so
happened that he, Tchichikoff, being positively traced as the imitator of bank
notes, and that he had about two millions worth in his possession, his house was
immediately surrounded by a detachment of soldiers, each of the doors being
sealed and guarded by two men, but during the same night Tchichikoff managed to
change the two millions worth of spurious notes into genuine imperial bank
bills. To the direct question, whether Tchichikoff had really the intention of
carrying out his elopement with the Governor-General's daughter, and whether it
was true that he had undertaken to assist them in their flight, Nosdrieff
replied, that he must confess, that he had particularly helped and assisted him,
and that without him, they would not have had the least chance of success. Here
he perceived, but too late, that he had compromised himself by this statement,
without, however, being able to stop the fluency of the tongue. However, it was
also difficult to stop his talkativeness, because the subject in itself was one
that presented so many interesting incidents, and he could not resist the
temptation of inventing them; he even gave the name of the particular village,
where the church stood on a hill surrounded by a small wood, through which they
had to pass in order to proceed to the nuptial ceremony, the name of the pope
who had to wed them before the altar, was father Sidor; for his services and
discretion he was to receive a hundred roubles, but he at first declined to
accede to their request, but that he, Nosdrieff, reminded the holy father that
he had married lately his peasant Michael to his cousin, Katinka, and which was
an act contrary to the laws of the Greek church, and that if he refused to marry
his friend and his lovely bride, he would at once inform against him, that he
had put at their disposal his own carriage and horses, and that he had gone on
horseback, from station to station to provide re-lay horses for the fugitives.
He went even so far in his particulars as regarded the elopement, that he begun
to call out the names of every one of the yamtschicks who drove the carriage.
The Imperial men remained now in a worse position than they were in the
beginning of their investigations, and the meeting was broken up, after they had
fully agreed upon the fact, it was impossible to them to discover who
Tchichikoff was. All these reports, conjectures and gossips on account of
Tchichikoff had, for some incomprehensible reasons, had the most fatal effect
upon the constitution of the poor Imperial Procurator. They had acted upon him
to such a degree, that he, on his return home from the meeting, from some cause
or another fell down and was found to be dead. Whether it was a paralytic stroke
or any other that put a term to his existence is difficult to say, but the fact
is, that when he sat down upon his chair, he had done so to rise no more. But
this is incredible, altogether inconsistent! it is impossible that the Imperial
_employÃ©s_ could so foolishly alarm themselves; imagine all such nonsense, thus
deviate from the truth, when even a child could comprehend the matter. Thus will
many of our readers think and reproach us with having advanced an incredible
occurrence, or call the imperial _employÃ©s_ stupid fellows, because men are
liberal in words like, fool and ass, and are ready and willing to apply them
even twenty times a day, if their fellow creatures give them but a chance. It is
very easy for a reader to pass a judgment, considering that he has the whole
plot before him, and is seated in his snug corner, occupying thus a perfectly
independent position, from which he has the whole horizon at a glance before
him, and sees, as it were, what is going on below him, where the creeping men
see but that which is close before them. CHAPTER XXIII. As for Pavel Ivanovitch
Tchichikoff, he had not the slightest idea of the reports that were circulating
on his account, and, as if misfortunes never come alone, it so happened, that at
this very time he was suffering from a severe cold in his face, and an influenza
in his throat, both indispositions to which we are very subject in our larger
towns. In order to avoid any danger to his life by this indisposition, from
which Heaven preserve him! and the fear that he might perhaps die in consequence
without leaving any descendants behind him, he resolved upon staying at home for
a few days. During the course of these days, he kept continually using
ointments, and rinsing his throat with warm milk and figs in it, the latter
fruit he always used to eat when he had used the lotion, he also wore a small
pillow on his face, filled with herbs and camphor. Wishing to occupy his leisure
time as pleasantly as possible, he began to write over again the various lists
of the dead serfs he had been purchasing, read a little of the "Wandering Jew,"
translated from the French, which he happened to find in his portmanteau, he
reviewed and glanced over all the contents of his dressing-case, such as notes,
visiting cards and invitations to weddings and funerals, some of them he even
had the courage to read over twice, nevertheless, he soon got tired of
continually doing the same thing. He could not at all account for the fact, how
it happened that he did not see a single visitor, when but a few days ago the
droschkies and carriages of the imperial _employÃ©s_ were continually standing
and waiting in a line before the inn, among his most frequent visitors he was
accustomed to see the carriage of the Postmaster General, the Procurator's, or
the President of the Council. He shrugged his shoulders at the thought of it as
he was walking up and down his room, applying the poultice to his swollen cheek.
At last, however, he felt considerably better, and was rejoiced, Heaven knows to
what extent, when he saw a possibility before him of leaving the house and
walking out into the fresh air. Without any further delay, he betook himself
immediately to the process of dressing, opened his toilette case, poured some
hot water into a glass, took his shaving brush and soap, and prepared to shave
himself, for which process it had been long ago the highest time; because,
feeling his beard with his hand, and then looking at it in the looking-glass
before him, he could not help exclaiming: "What a forest-like beard I have got
in a few days, to be sure." And really, though it could not have been called a
forest, yet his cheeks and chin were thickly covered with what might be termed a
neglected growth. After having shaved carefully, he began to dress so quickly
and lively, so that he nearly jumped out of his trowsers again. At last, he was
perfectly dressed, he took up his _Eau de Cologne_, with which he sprinkled
himself all over, and after putting on a warmer over-coat, and wrapping his
cheek carefully in a silk handkerchief, he went out into the street. His first
walk out was like that of every person recovering from an indisposition; he felt
cheerful and well-disposed. All that his sight met, seemed gay and pleasant to
look at, the houses, the passing multitude, the carriages and horses and even
the running dogs. His first morning visit he intended to pay to his Excellency
the Governor-General of Smolensk. On his road to the house of the Lord-
Lieutenant, many a thought crossed his mind. The fair _blondine_ kept
continually turning about in his head; his fancy for her even began to roam, so
much so that he could at last not help smiling at it himself. In such a pleasant
disposition he arrived at the house of the Governor-General. He was on the point
of taking off his over-coat in the hall, when the porter surprised him with the
following unexpected information. "I have orders not to receive you, Sir."
"What, how, surely you don't recognise me again. You had better look me well in
the face," said Tchichikoff to the man. "How should I not know you again, Sir?
It is not the first time I have seen you in this house. But the instructions I
have received are very positive indeed; they refer to you alone; all other
visitors are to be admitted as before." "You don't mean that! Why me alone? what
for?" "Such are my orders, and I dare say it must be all right," said the
porter, and added finally the words, "yes." After saying this, he remained
coolly standing before Tchichikoff, showing no signs of his usual servility to
hasten forward and help the guest of his master to take off his over-coat. It
seemed, as he looked upon the stranger, that he thought, "Oho! if my master does
not wish to receive you any more under his roof, you must have behaved badly,
and be an impostor." "Incomprehensible!" thought Tchichikoff to himself, and
went immediately to wait upon his friend the President; but the President became
so confused at the sight of our hero, that he could not speak two words
intelligibly and uttered such nonsense that both felt at last perfectly ashamed
of one another.' As he left the house, Tchichikoff tried to explain to himself,
on his road, what the President's words were meant to express, and especially a
few insinuations that had dropped in the course of their conversation, however
he could explain nothing. He then went to pay his visits to a few more, to the
Commissioner of Police, to the Vice-Governor, to the Postmaster-General, but
they either did not receive him, or if they did, at least, all spoke in such a
strange manner, and in such incomprehensible terms, and seemed in his opinion at
such a loss for anything reasonable to say, that he left them under the
impression that they were wrong in their minds. He called upon a few more on his
road home, thinking that he would at last be able to find out a real cause for
their unwarrantable conduct; however he could not discover any cause whatever.
Like a somnambulist he continued to wander about for some time in the streets of
the town, perfectly incapable of deciding, whether it was he or the Imperial
_employÃ©s_ who had lost their senses. It was already late in the evening when he
returned to his hotel, which he had left in the early day, in such an excellent
disposition, to chase away the annoyance he felt, he immediately ordered some
tea. Engaged with melancholy reflections on his suddenly changed position _vis-
Ã -vis_ his acquaintance in town, he began to pour out his tea, when the door of
his room was suddenly opened, and he beheld Nosdrieff standing unexpectedly
before him. CHAPTER XXIV. "The proverb says, 'for a friend seven miles even are
no distance,'" said Nosdrieff as he entered the room and took off his hat. "I
was just passing the inn, saw a light in your room, thought to myself, I'll call
upon him, he is surely not in bed yet, and here I am. Ah, delightful! you have
yet your tea on the table; I shall have great pleasure to take a cup with you. I
have made a very indifferent dinner to-day, and feel the consequences even now,
just give orders to your servant to bring me a pipe. Where is your pipe?" "I
don't smoke," said Tchichikoff, dryly. "Nonsense! as if I did not know that you
are an inveterate smoker. Halloa! what's that fellow's name? Halloa, Vachramei,
where are you?" "His name is not Vachramei, but Petruschka." "How is this? but
you used to have a servant of the name of Vachramei formerly." "I never had a
servant of that name in my life." "Just so, my friend Derebischkin has a
Vachramei. By the bye, imagine only what a lucky fellow that Derebischkin is. An
aunt of his, having quarrelled with her own son for marrying the daughter of one
of her serfs, has disinherited him, and left the whole of her property to my
friend Derebischkin. When I heard of it, I could not help wishing for a couple
of such aunts. But what is the matter with you, my dear fellow, why have you
become a stranger, and are no more seen among us? Of course I know that you are
sometimes engaged on scientific subjects, and like to play the original, and
read and study, (why Nosdrieff came to the conclusion that our hero was fond of
reading, and studying scientific subjects, is impossible for us to tell, and
still less for Tchichikoff himself). "Ah, my dear fellow Tchichikoff, if you
could but have witnessed it--it would have been excellent food for your
satirical wit, (why Tchichikoff was possessed of satirical wit, it was also
impossible to say.) Imagine only, my dear fellow, we were gambling a little the
other evening at Lichatcheff's house, we had such a lark there! My friend
Perependeiff, who was with me, said what a pity that our Tchichikoff is not with
us, he would have heartily enjoyed the fun--(meanwhile it must be observed that
Tchichikoff never in his whole life knew a man of the name of Perependeiff.)
However, I hope, my dear fellow, you will agree with me, that you acted very
ungentlemanly to me on the last occasion, when we played that game of draughts,
in which I was the winner. Yes, my dear fellow, I cannot help saying, you
regularly did me out of it. However, the devil knows I cannot get angry on any
account. It is but recently, that I and the President...."

"Halloa! and by the bye, I must tell you, my dear fellow, that the whole town is
against you, they are under the impression that you are a manufacturer of
spurious bank notes, they pressed hard upon me, but I defended you like a
brother, I made them believe we were school-fellows, and that I knew your
father; you may depend upon it, my dear fellow, I made them swallow a regular
blue pill." "What do you say, I am suspected of making false bank notes?"
exclaimed Tchichikoff in a fit of amazement, as he rose from his chair. "But
what pleasure could you also find in frightening them nearly out of their
senses?" continued Nosdrieff. "I can assure you, my dear fellow, they are nearly
all mad from fear; they believe you also to be a highwayman, and an imperial
spy. As for the Procurator, the poor fellow died in consequence of your
reputation, and is to be buried to-morrow. Will you attend the funeral? To speak
the truth, they are horribly alarmed at the new Governor-General, who has been
appointed by the Emperor. However, my dear fellow, I cannot help making the
observation; but you play a hazardous game." "What hazardous game do you mean?"
Tchichikoff again asked, rather alarmed. "Well, I mean your projected elopement
with the present Governor-General's daughter. For my part, I must confess, I
expected as much of you, by heavens I thought you would do it! The first time I
saw you both together at the ball, I thought to myself, I'm sure Tchichikoff is
not the fellow to take so much trouble for nothing. However, allow me to tell
you, that I do not exactly approve of your choice, I cannot find anything
particularly attractive in that fair girl. I would have liked her cousin,
Anastasia Bikousova better, she is a charming little thing!" "But stop, stop,
what nonsense are you talking there? What did you say--I was going to elope with
the Lord Lieutenant's daughter?" Tchichikoff stammered, opening his eyes widely.
"Well, my dear fellow, now don't you presume to be so very mysterious about the
matter. I must confess, I came here with an intention. I am ready to assist you
in the speculation. Be it so: I am willing to hold the nuptial crown over your
head, I am ready to place my carriage and the relay horses at your disposal, but
you must lend me a sum of five thousand roubles. I want them, I want them
desperately, my dear fellow!" During the whole time the prattling of Nosdrieff
lasted, Tchichikoff continued to rub his eyes, wishing to convince himself
whether he was under the impression of a dream, or whether he was listening to
something in reality. Manufacturer of false bank notes, the elopement with the
Governor-General's daughter, the death of the Imperial Procurator, which he was
given to understand was caused by him, the appointment and speedy arrival of a
new Lord-Lieutenant, all this was calculated to alarm him considerably. If
matters have come to this point, he thought to himself, I have no reason to
tarry any longer here, and it is the highest time for me to leave town
immediately. He tried to rid himself as soon as possible of Nosdrieff's company,
in which he at last succeeded, but not without some considerable difficulty. He
then called in his servant Selifan, and gave him instructions to be ready by the
break of day, in order that they should have no impediments in leaving Smolensk
by six o'clock in the morning, everything should be packed and ready, the
britchka well greased, the horses cleaned, &c., &c.

Selifan answered: "very well, Pavel Ivanovitch," but remained nevertheless for a
few moments immoveable at the door. Tchichikoff ordered Petruschka to draw
forward from under the bed his portmanteau, which was covered with a thick layer
of dust, he began to assist his servant in the packing of all his property
indiscriminately into it, such as stockings, shirts, and other clean and
unwashed linen, boot-jacks, an almanack--all these effects were placed into the
portmanteau as they happened to come under their hands; he intended to have
everything absolutely ready in the evening, so that nothing should prevent or
delay his departure in the morning. Selifan who had, as we before said, remained
silently standing at the door, when he saw the preparation for his master's
departure carried on so vigorously, at last left the room in a hurry. Hurriedly,
as hurriedly as it is possible to imagine it, he descended the staircase,
imprinting the marks of his wet footsteps on the stairs, on arriving below he
stopped short, and began to scratch the back of his head for a considerable
rime. What this scratching of his head meant, or what it in general was meant
for, is difficult to say, but it is a characteristic trait of persons in his
condition. Was it the disappointment, that he would not be able to go the next
evening once more with his brother servant across the street to the cellar like
imperial dram-shop, or had it, perhaps, happened that he had already succeeded
during their protracted sojourn in Smolensk, in forming a tender attachment of
the heart with some neighbour's kitchen-maid, and that he would have to bid
farewell to his fair girl, and that there would be an end to their tender
conversation before the gate, where with his balalaika in his hand he used to
give her an evening song. Or, again was he simply sorry to leave a place to
which he had just begun to accustom himself, and feel cozy and comfortable near
the kitchen fire wrapped in his greasy sheep-skin, eating porridge and sour
cabbage soup with fat meat-pies; leave all these comforts for the purpose of
travelling again in rain and storm, and be tossed about on his master's
britchka? Heaven alone knows what it meant, but it has many and innumerable
meanings with the Russian people, when they begin to scratch the back of their
head. CHAPTER XXV. Nothing, however, of all that Tchichikoff had projected on
the preceding evening, so happened on the following morning. In the first
instance, he awoke considerably later than he wished; this was the first
annoyance. Scarcely had he risen from his couch, when he sent immediately to
inquire whether the horses were harnessed and before the britchka, and whether
all was ready for his departure, but he was informed that neither the horses nor
the britchka, nor anything was ready for his immediate departure. This was the
second annoyance. He flew into a violent passion, and had first, the intention
of treating our friend Selifan to something in the Russian fashion, for the
disregard thus shown to his orders, however he preferred waiting impatiently to
hear first what excuse he would come to offer. Soon after, Selifan made his
appearance in the room, and his lord and master had the gratification of
listening to the same language which is usually spoken by servants on similar
occasions, when their masters are in a hurry to start on their journey without
delay. "Your glory, I must inform you that the horses will require to be shod."
"Oh, you pig! you stupid blockhead! and why have you hot told me of this before?
Had you no time to do it?" "As for time, I cannot complain of--But allow me also
to tell you, Pavel Ivanovitch, that one of the wheels wants a new tyre very
sadly indeed, the roads have become very bad during these last few rainy days.
And will your glory allow me also to observe, that the driving-box of the
britchka is altogether out of repair and shaky, so much so that I fear it will
not hold together for more than two or three stations." "You rascal, you!"
shouted Tchichikoff, raising his arms, and clapping his hands together, and
approaching Selifan so closely, that he, prompted by fear of receiving an
unpleasant treat, stepped hastily backwards, and remained at a respectful
distance. "Do you want to kill me? aye? do you wish to cut my throat? Have you
formed a conspiracy to slaughter me on the high road? you robber, you infernal
pig you, you marine monster, you! For three weeks and more you have been sitting
here at your ease, but the thought could never come into your blockhead to think
of this before? ah? but now at the eleventh hour you put your nose at last upon
it! how am I now to get in and drive off? eh? such is always the case with you,
you rascal, and now you have let me again in a mess! ah? ah? But you ought to
have known all this before? didn't you know it? ah? eh? Answer me. Did you know
it? ah? eh?" "I knew it, your glory," answered Selifan, bending down his head.
"And why didn't you tell me of it before? ah? eh?" To this question Selifan gave
no answer at all, but bending down his head still lower, he seemed to say to
himself: "Look here, how strangely all this has happened, to be sure: I knew all
about it but said nothing!" "And now, Sir, you go instantly, bring me a
blacksmith, and mind that everything requisite is done and attended to in two
hours. Do you hear and understand me? absolutely in two hours, and if you are
not ready, then you know what the result will be. I shall drive you into a
bull's horn, and tie you up with a knot." Our hero's anger had risen to a
considerable pitch. Selifan turned round to the door, as if with the intention
of leaving the room, and executing his master's instructions; however, he
stopped short, and said:

"I have forgotten to mention to your glory, that it would be a good plan to sell
the tiger-spotted horse, because he is--I can assure you, Pavel Ivanovitch, the
greatest idler and rascal I ever had to do with, he is such a horse, as I would
pray Heaven to deliver me from." "Well, I'm sure! you don't mean to say, Sir,
that I am going to run to the marketplace, and sell a horse to please you?" "I
invoke my patron saint as a witness, Pavel Ivanovitch, but that horse has only
the appearance of a good horse, but at work he is the greatest rogue and idler.
Such a horse--"

"Stupid donkey, I shall sell my horses when I choose. Do not presume to argue
with me, but mind what I am telling you now; if you don't go instantly to fetch
me a blacksmith, and if everything is not ready within two hours, you may depend
upon such a combing--such a combing that you will have every difficulty in
recognizing your own face again! Leave me! be off!" Selifan left the room.
Tchichikoff had now lost even the slightest vestige of good temper, and kept
thumping his old rusty sword on the ground, which travelled with him wherever he
went, for the purpose of inspiring with due respect all those whom it concerned.
He spent more than a quarter of an hour with the blacksmith before he could
agree as to the terms for his job, because the blacksmith as is customary with
them, was an impudent fellow, who perceiving that the gentleman was in a hurry,
demanded of him six times his due. It was of no use for Tchichikoff to reason
with the man, to call him a scoundrel, robber, preying upon the unwary
traveller, notwithstanding even his allusion to the day of judgment, he could
produce no impression upon the hardened blacksmith; he maintained his iron
character to the last; he not only insisted upon his own price, but even
continued to job about his work exactly five hours and a half, instead of two
hours. During the whole of this time, Tchichikoff had the advantage of
experiencing all the pleasant sensations, so very familiar to every traveller
who has his portmanteaus ready packed, and useless papers and strings lying
strewn about in the room, when a man does not yet deserve to be called a
traveller, and when he also may not be called a fixed resident; in such a
position let us imagine him standing before the window in his room, looking down
into the street, where he beholds a busy crowd passing along, talking of their
grievances, and with a meaningless curiosity lifting their eyes to look upon
him, and then again continuing their conversation, and passing on their way,
which still more annoys the disappointed, not yet journeying traveller. Whatever
it may be, and whatever he may see, whether a little shop on the other side of
the street, or the head of an old woman living in the opposite house, as she
approaches the window, ornamented with old fashioned curtains, the sight of all
this displeases and annoys him considerably, but still, and for all that, he
will not leave his position. He continues to stand there fixedly, soon
forgetting, then again looking steadfastly at everything before him, whether
animate or inanimate; and out of pure vexation kills a poor fly, which had been
already for some time buzzing and beating against the window pane. However,
there is an end to everything, and the long wished for moment has at last
arrived; all was ready, the driving seat of the britchka was repaired most
carefully, a new iron tyre fixed around the wheel, the horses led forward from
their draining cup, and the impudent blacksmith, after receiving his pay, and
counting the silver roubles, wished smilingly a pleasant journey to the
traveller he had so shamelessly provoked. At last the britchka was ready to
start, and two hot cakes just brought were immediately placed into it by
Petruschka, whilst Selifan stocked the leather pockets of his seat with similar
eatables, at last our hero himself escorted, and received by the flourish of
numerous caps, and the ever attentive head waiter, in the same demi-cotton
jacket and napkin across his shoulder, made his appearance before his travelling
carriage, where he was greeted by a number of waiters, coachmen and idlers, who
like to be always present on similar occasions; the gentleman traveller took
possession of his high seat, and the britchka, that particular travelling
carriage, to which bachelors and retired Stabz-capitÃ¤ns give the preference, and
which had been standing under a shed for so long a time in the town of Smolensk;
and whose inactivity may have already begun to fatigue our reader, at last drove
out through the gates of the inn. "I praise thee, O Lord!" said Tchichikoff to
himself, while making a devout sign of the cross, which is customary among the
faithful believers in the Greek church. Selifan made his whip crack, and used it
immediately upon all three horses in succession; Petruschka kept running for
awhile close to the carriage, and then jumping cleverly upon the wheel step, he
took his seat next to his brother servant; and our hero, seating himself still
more comfortably upon his small Persian carpet, and carefully placing a leather
cushion behind his back, unconsciously flattened the two hot cakes, and the
light carriage began to roll and shake again quickly over the wretched pavement,
which had the effect of tossing the occupant considerably about. CHAPTER XXVI.
It was with an indefinable feeling that Tchichikoff now began to look round him,
at the houses, walls, gardens and streets, which on their part seemed also to be
tossing about, until at last they disappeared before his sight, and which,
Heaven knows he will perhaps never have the chance of seeing again during his
life. At the turning of one of the streets, the britchka was suddenly obliged to
stop, because of a funeral procession, which was just slowly bending its way
across the street; it was headed as usual by a dozen mourners in deep black,
carrying burning torches in their hands, and followed by the bearers of the
military and civil orders, worn by the deceased, and then by the funeral car and
its followers. Tchichikoff leaning forward ordered Petruschka to inquire who it
was whom they were thus leading to his grave, and he received the answer that it
was the right honorable the Imperial Procurator. Overwhelmed with unpleasant
sensations and recollections, he immediately lent back into the farthest corner
of his carriage, and covered himself with the carriage apron, and drew down the
leather curtains. At the time when the britchka was thus stopped, Selifan and
Petruschka took their caps off with great fervour, and made the usual sign of
the cross, and began to gape about and see who were present, and how they were
following the mournful and exceedingly long procession, trying to count the
number of those that were walking, and those that were driving in their own
carriages behind the funeral car; their master, after having cautioned them not
to recognise nor salute any of the servants with whom they might have made
acquaintance, also begun to look, or rather peep attentively through the small
glass square fixed in the leather curtains; he beheld nearly all the Imperial
_employÃ©s_ of his acquaintance forming the majority of the chief mourners. He
began to feel alarmed lest they should accidentally recognise his carriage,
however this was but a false alarm, their minds were differently pre-occupied.
They were even not occupied with any worldly talk, such as is usually carried on
between persons that follow a funeral. All their thoughts, at that time, were
principally concentrated upon themselves; they were thinking and asking
themselves the question--what kind of a man the newly-appointed Governor-general
would be, with what energy he would undertake his duties, and how he would
receive them. Behind the Imperial _employÃ©s_, who followed all walking, came the
carriages from which ladies in mourning gowns were putting out their heads to
look about them. By the movements of their lips and hands, it could easily be
conjectured that they were engaged in lively conversation; very likely they also
spoke of the arrival of the new Governor-general, and tried to imagine what kind
of balls and routs he would be likely to give on the occasion of his new
appointment; and they seemed very anxious about their new dresses with the
recent fashionable improvement of festoons and ornaments all over. The private
carriages were followed by a few empty droschkies, which concluded the
procession, and at last the road was free and open again for our hero's
britchka, which began to speed on to make up for lost time. Opening now freely
again the leather curtains of his carriages, Tchichikoff heaved a deep sigh, and
pronounced, as if from the innermost of his soul:

"There he went, the Imperial Procurator; he has lived and lived until he has
come to his death! and now they will advertise in the newspapers, that his
existence has terminated to the unspeakable regret of his inferiors and
superiors, as well as to humanity at large, a respected citizen, a rare father,
a beloved husband, and much more, they will print in his memory; add perhaps,
that he was followed to his grave not only by his numerous friends, but also by
many widows and orphans of the town; but if we were to examine your virtues and
qualities more minutely and conscientiously, we would find perhaps nothing more
remarkable than your bushy and heavy eyebrows." After having concluded this
observation, our hero ordered Selifan to speed on his horses, and meanwhile
thought to himself--"however, it is rather lucky that I have met with a funeral
procession; it is said that it prognosticates good fortune to meet with the
dead." Meanwhile, the britchka turned and passed through the more lonely and
distant streets; soon after Tchichikoff saw only the long and uniform wooden
walls of gardens and enclosed building grounds, which announced the end of the
town. And now there was an end to the wretched pavement; and he had passed the
last military frontier of the town of Smolensk, which now remained behind him;
and he was again on the free and high wide road. And again, on either side of
the britchka, were woods and forests, and fields and plains, brooks and wells,
military posts, and grey villages, with chatting old women, and idle peasants,
looking out from their huge beards, like a bear from his den. At first, the
changing scenes around him did not make any particular impression upon his mind;
but by degrees, and as he continued to turn round to convince himself, that the
town of Smolensk was really behind him, and nearly hidden from his sight, he
began to pay a little more attention to the high road, and to his own
reflections, which begun so fully to preoccupy his mind, that Smolensk was as
much out of his mind as out of his sight; and he really fancied that he had
merely passed through once in his early childhood. At last, even the high road
ceased to possess any attractions whatever for him, and he began slightly to
incline his head upon the leather pillow, and close his eyes. Our hero was
suddenly aroused from his slumber by an approaching noise on the high road,
behind his britchka. The noise approached rapidly, and seemed to be caused by
the galloping of numerous horses. "Hallo! what are you about?" said Tchichikoff,
calling out to his coachman, Selifan; "why don't you drive on?" "Yes, your
glory!" answered Selifan, in a slow voice, and with a sleepy countenance,
without being able to comply at once with the request, so much was he benumbed
by the chilly night-air. "How are you driving, you stupid goose? Why don't you
flog the horses?" But before Selifan had the time to comply with his master's
command, the last which either he or Petruschka was to receive from him; the
horses galloping behind had rejoined the britchka, and in a few moments later
Tchichikoff beheld before him the Commissioner of Police from Smolensk, and
another gentleman on horseback, who was introduced to him as an imperial
messenger. The imperial messenger transmitted to Tchichikoff a document, with
the imperial seal beneath; after the hasty perusal of this mysterious document,
our hero's countenance changed suddenly; his eyes became dim, and his face as
pale as death. The imperial messenger then pointed silently to a sinister-
looking carriage, called a Siberian kibitka, into which our hero was assisted,
without being able to utter a syllable, and the next moment he was a dead man.
THE END.