chapter I had writ first. "There woman is a queen, the poorest female in the
slummiest slum is a monark in that sacred place." "Yes," sez Samantha,
"sometimes a good man makes a wife supremely happy. But too often nowdays a
bright healthy young woman finds in the life she has pictured as the dooryard of
Eden a worse serpent than Eve found there, a loathsome souvenir of her husband's
old gay life which destroys her own health and happiness, and which she has to
hand down to her children's children, makin' 'em invalids and idiots. "The poor
workin' mother you speak on if she is well enough can stay at home if she has a
home to stay in, and doesn't have to labor outside to sustain it. She can
breathe the filthy tenement air, be frozen by its winter, choked by its summer
atmosphere, she can guide and guard the youthful steps of her children as far as
the doorstep and then she must drop the helpless hand, and if she is inteligent
and loving hearted she can wet her pillow with vain tears thinking how her
pretty innocent young girl has got to pass vile saloons full of evil men on her
way to and from store and factory. The factory filled with gant childish forms,
with all the care-free happiness of childhood ground from their faces by the
brutal hand of Incessant Toil. Unguarded machinery on every side that one false
careless move of her girl may maim or kill. Her pretty girl alone strugglin'
with ontold dangers. Youth's wild blood urging her to indiscreet acts, Wolves of
Prey on one side, Grim Want on the other. If the mother has a mother's heart,
her body may be at home where she is so eloquently urged to be, but her heart
will be abroad, in the greater home wimmen want to make safer; the home where
her children spend their days. It will be hantin' the factory, the grog shop,
the vile picture show, the white slaver's abode, watchin', waitin', for what may
happen, what has happened so often to other mothers' children." Samantha goes
too fur when she gits to goin', and I told her so plain and square, she
aggravates me. And to let her see how much I disapproved of her talk I never
dained a reply to her in verbal words. But I riz up with a hauty mean on my
eyebrow, and went to pokin' the kitchen fire. I poked it with all the strength
of a strong man whose arguments have been spilte and whose feelin's have been
wownded by his own pardner. But I believe my soul that she thought that I did it
as a hint that it wuz about dinner time, for she went out to once and hung on
the teakettle. And as she did so she mentioned incidentally that she laid out to
have lamb chops and green peas and mashed potatoes for dinner, with peach pie
and coffee to foller. As she said this my angry emotions settled down and grew
more clear and composed, some like Samantha's delicious coffee, when she drops
the powdered eggshells into it. IV

I TALK ON MAN'S PROTECTIN' LOVE FOR WIMMEN

It wuz a beautiful mornin'. I felt boyed up by the invigoration of the
invigoratin' atmosphere, the boyness helped along mebby by three cups of
Samantha's delicious coffee with rich cream in it, three veal cutlets brown and
tender, four hot rolls light as day, several flaky baked potatoes and some biled
eggs. I felt well and I devoted my muse on this auspicious occasion to writin'
specially on the protectin' love and care that men had always shown and
delighted to show to females. It wuz a subject that I loved and my mind and
tongue had often reverted to, follerin' the example of all the other good and
great statesmen who have talked and writ on the feminist question. And I felt
that I wuz abundantly qualified to do justice to it, havin' protected Samantha
and lovin'ly guarded her weak footsteps for goin' on forty years. I set with my
steeled pen in hand and got so lost and wropped up in contemplation of the
beautiful and inspirin' subject, and plannin' how I would handle it to the best
advantage, that time passed onheeded and first I knowed I hearn by the sound of
dishes rattlin' in the near and adjacent kitchen that Samantha wuz beginin' to
make preparations for dinner. The kitchen as I said wuz contagious to the
settin' room and the door wuz open. I had laid out and intended to begin the
chapter on this important and most congenial subject with some strong stern
language calculated to shame wimmen for the unbelievin' remarks they had made on
this beautiful and universal trait of my sect, and their seemin' teetotle
inability to appreciate the constant onvaryin' and lovin' protection that men
had always gin to the weaker and more inferior sect. I remembered well how in a
former talk with Samantha on this subject, though she had admitted willin'ly
enough that there wuz lots of good generous men runnin' loose in the world. Yet
she tried to dispute my insertion that _all_ men _always_ cared for and tenderly
protected wimmen, by bringin' up instances where she claimed men had balked and
kicked over the traces, and instead of protectin' wimmen had run 'em away into
ruination and destruction. She brung up White Slavery, political, social and
industrial dependence, and the average man's inherient objection to regard
wimmen as a citizen and plain human bein', bein' inclined to regard 'em either
as angels or underlin's. And a lot of other trashy arguments calculated to rile
a man up, yes mad a man to the very quick, who knowed what he wuz talkin' about.
One who had spent the heft of his life in protectin' and guidin' her that now
turned agin him and disputed him. A man who knowed as well as he knowed the
looks of his linement in the shavin' glass, that man's protectin' love and care
wuz all that had held wimmen up, and wuz still a proppin' her. I spoze in my
righteous indignation I may have said kinder hash things about the low down
ornary traits of the inferior sect to which Samantha belonged, for she begun to
bring up traits that she said some of my sect had, and throw 'em at me, traits
that I know no man ever had or skursley ever had hearn on. But I must say that
all the while riled up as she wuz inside of her, she kep' knittin' away on my
indigo blue sock, and kep' makin' honorable exceptions of good men and smart
men. But she brung up Vanity, said I and my sect wuz vain. Sez she, "If a woman
tries to talk sense and reason to a man about her needs and her rights, he will
generally pay her a compliment about her eyes or her nose. 'Tennyrate he will
turn the subject some way and won't listen to her. But if she makes eyes at him,
and talks soft nonsense, and flatters him, he will purr like a pussy cat."
'Tain't so. Who ever hearn a man purr? Purrin' is sunthin a man's nater would
rebel at and scorn with perfect contemp. But I smashed that argument about
vanity to once and forever. Sez I so scathin'ly that it seemed as if she must
show signs of scorchin', "Did you ever see a man wear a cosset? Or carry a
vanity bag?" And then still a knittin' and still makin' exceptions of some good
and generous men, she throwed the trait of selfishness in my face, said my sect
had passed along down the fields of time, gatherin' up the ripe wheat and
leavin' wimmen to rake up the leavin's. 'Tain't so, and even if it wuz, I
presoom to say Ruth got quite a good bundle of grain out of Boazes' wheat field.
And then she took pomposity and throwed at me (still a knittin', and still
makin' exceptions of some men) said lots of men stood up on a self-made pedestal
lookin' down mentally on them who in many cases wuz their superiors, but she
added that wimmen wuz more to blame for this trait in men than they wuz, for
they had been educated to look up to men instead of lookin' sideways where they
ort to find him on a level at her side. It is needless to say to any one who
knows my keenness of inteleck that I took immegiate advantage of this slip of
her tongue and sez, "I am glad that you admit, Samantha, that wimmen are always
in the wrong. I and my sect have always knowed it, and we've always laid the
blame on 'em from Eve down to Miss Pankhurst." And that seemed to set her off
agin, and she brung up my blindness. Blind as a bat! Them wuz her words she
throwed at me, at _me_! who has got eyes as keen as a eagle's. That injustice
did rankle and make me hash and say hash things. But she kep' cam on the
outside, kep' on with her knittin' and intimidated agin that though there wuz
lots of good generous men in the world, yet it had always been a trait of the
average man from Solomon to Harry Thaw to look upon woman as a plaything or a
convenience. And then she brung up inconsistency and how men showed it in the
laws they made, _criminal inconsistency_, she called it. Sez she, "A girl must
be twenty-one when she is considered by men lawmakers wise enough to sell them a
hen, or buy a cat. But yet at the age of ten in one state, twelve in another,
she is considered by them wise and prudent enough to sell them the crowning
jewel of her life with the payment of lifelong shame, agony, and despair, and
mebby a little candy. Men make such laws," sez she, "not for their own sweet
young girls, but for some other men's daughters, just like the infamous White
Slave traffic that sells every year thousands and thousands of young girls into
a livin' death. And I think," sez she, "when men make such shameful barbarous
laws it is high time for 'em to have help from angels or wimmen or sunthin' or
ruther." "That hain't religious, Samantha," sez I, "to speak of angels makin'
laws, tendin' corkuses and such. As a deacon I object to it." Sez she, "As a
deacon you better object to the laws I'm talkin' about, and if clergymen,
deacons and church members generally, would all rise agin 'em, they'd be stamped
out pretty sudden." Sez she, "When the young girls of our country are considered
of equal importance with cows and clover to oversee and protect, there will be
different laws, and I believe wimmen's votin' will hasten that day." There is
always a time for a man if he wants to keep his dignity intack before females,
to stop arguin' with 'em. That time had come to me at that juncture, and I
knowed that it would be more dignified to show a manly superiority to such
hullsale calumnity of my sect so I looked hautily at her, and didn't dain to
reply to her in verbal words though I grated my teeth some, as I walked out of
the settin' room with head erect into the kitchen, and brought in a armful of
wood from the contagious woodshed with my head still held high, and hung on the
teakettle with a hauty mean. For I felt that some of Samantha's good vittles
would soothe my wownded and perturbed sperit if anything could and they did cam
me. I thought of that former interview with my pardner as I sot there preparin'
my mind for the masterful effort I wuz about to make. As I said more formerly I
had intended to begin the chapter at this epock of time with a few witherin'
remarks calculatin' to rebuke wimmen and wither 'em. I laid out to stun 'em and
skair 'em with the artillery of my brilliant eloquence, my protectin' love for
the weaker sect riz up so powerful, and my anger wuz so hot agin them that had
dasted to deny it. I felt that they _did_ believe in men's constant and tender
protection, but held out and denied it jest to be mean, jest to carry out their
sect's well known desire to argy and aggravate us. And as I meditated on these
things and thought of my former talk with Samantha I have jest related, I held
my steeled pen in almost a iron grip, and my linement I knowed growed fearful to
look upon, charged as it wuz with the awakened powers of a strong man. When jest
as I wuz beginin' the turrible rebukin' words Samantha opened the oven door in
the contagious kitchen and the fragrant breath of a lemon custard pie floated
out, accompanied with the delicious uroma of a roast chicken with dressin'. And
as on so many former occasions, the delicious odor seemed to enter into and
permenate my hull mental and physical systern and soften 'em and quiet my wild
and dangerous emotions, I felt mellerer towards her and her sect, and I held my
steeled pen in a gentler, softer grip. And instead of the thunderbolt of
convincin' argument I had even begun to transcribe, I sez to Samantha, who had
come in with a pan of potatoes to peel, and my voice wuz as sweet as the lemon
custard. "You do know, don't you, dear Samantha, that it has always been men's
chief aim and desire to protect the weaker inferior sect?" sez I tenderly. "Any
man that has the sperit of manhood within him will agree with me." Agin I
inhaled into my nostrils the sweet uroma comin' from the contagious kitchen, and
sez I in a still tenderer axent, "Men love to protect wimmen, don't you think
so?" Sez Samantha in a cam reasonable voice peelin' away at her potatoes, "A man
loves to protect and warn a woman agin every man only himself." Sez she, "Amanda
Peedick wuz protected by men and warned." And I sez kinder short, my tenderer
emotions driv back into myself, "What of it, what if she wuz!" And then she had
to go on and recall to my mind that triflin' incident that had occurred and took
place in Jonesville the fall before. Sez she, "You remember, Josiah, old man
Peedick who wuz rich as a Jew, left all his money to his boys, a handsome
propputy to each one on 'em, and Almina who had stayed to home and took care on
him, and lifted him, and rubbed him, and soaked him, and swet him, and dressed
and fed him, he only left the house and apple orchard. "The boys all had
splendid homes in the city, but their houses wuz either too big or too small, or
too hot or too cold, to have Almina live with 'em, and she wuz expected to git
her livin' out of the apples. They wuz first class grafts, none so good anywhere
round, and brought the very highest price, and she would got a good livin' and
laid up money, if she had been left alone, if she hadn't been protected and
warned. "But every single one of them brothers would come out from the city and
warn her agin the other brothers, and tell her how easy it wuz for a weak
innocent woman to be deceived and cheated by designin' men, her nearest relation
mebby. And that a gentle female's mind wuzn't strong enough to grapple with
depravity, and she must lean on him for protection, and he would see her
through, so every single one on 'em told her, and warned her agin the other six
brothers. "And Amanda would feel real affectionate and grateful to each one on
'em in turn, and be glad she had such a strong protector and warner to take care
of her. And every single time they come to protect and warn her they would take
home a few bushels of them delicious apples, and when they got through
protectin' and warnin' her, she didn't have apples enough left to make a mess of
sass." But what of it, what had that got to do with my great work that wuz
seethin' through my brain? That shows how triflin' and how ornary a woman's mind
is, to bring up that old story whilst my brain wuz workin' to a almost dangerous
degree inside of my forward tryin' to prove to the female masses at large the
great fact of men's protectin' love and the needecessity for it, to prove to 'em
as I laid out to prove to the listenin' world that wimmen wuz naterally inferior
to men, their brains smaller and lighter, when weighed up in the stillyards.
Their emmanuel strength less, their idees more whifflin' and onstabled, and that
therefore and accordin'ly wimmen needed and had got to have man's masterful mind
and emmanuel strength to protect her from the evils and wickedness of the world,
and specially from the awful tuckerin' and dangerous job of votin'. At this
juncter I paused for a minute to collect my thoughts together and then I brought
forth from my brain this convincin' argument. If wimmen don't need a man to
protect her and take care on her, why is she so much more ignorant of sin and
depravity? Why is there five times more men in prisons and penitentiaries than
there is wimmen, if they knowed as much about crime as men do? "No," sez I,
soarin' up in eloquence, "what a man has been through and been educated up to in
business and political life, he knows how to protect tender females from. Why,"
sez I, fairly carried away on the wings of my own eloquence, "men can teach
wimmen more in one day about criminal wickedness, graft, false witnessing,
drunkenness, bribery, political corruption of all kinds, than she can learn from
her own sect in months. Not but what," sez I reasonably, "she can learn some
from some on 'em, but not nigh so much nor nigh so fast." I didn't know but
Samantha would take lumbago from my cuttin' remarks, but she didn't seem to. She
took up her pan of peeled potates and prepared to leave the room. But as she
went out she said sunthin' agin about that old Debatin' School, and the feller
she always tried to git on the other side of the argument, so's to help her out.
Showin' as plain as the nose on your face jest how queer wimmen are, how their
minds will wander, and how impossible it is to keep 'em down to the subject
under discussion. V

WHEREIN I PROVE MAN'S COURTESY TOWARDS WIMMEN

In my tremenjous efforts to succor my sufferin' and women-hounded sect at this
awful epock of time, I have already held forth on the beautiful and congenial
subject of the love and protectin' care males have always loved to show towards
females. But agin I take up my steeled pen to write upon this most important
subject. For I agin warn my sect solemnly that this beautiful trait in me and
us, is what we should enlarge upon, and insist on makin' the female sect admit
at this epock of danger and revolt. Yes, my sufferin' sect, we should make 'em
own up to it, peacefully if we can, but if necessary let us insert it into their
obstinate craniums with a crowbar and hammer. For though a weaker inteleck may
not grasp its importance and extreme needecessity, it is plain to the eagle eye
of a Researcher and Reformer of females that if they admit this, they have got
to admit all that follers, the perfect peace and rest they feel surrounded by
these noble traits as by a shinin' mantilly. With this worthy end in view I've
tried to warn Samantha time and agin that if females insisted on risin' up and
demandin' their Rights they would become so obnoxious to the stronger and
opposite sects that men would lose that tender courtesy they have always loved
to show towards wimmen. But I've never been able to skair her, and I don't know
as I ever shall. Mebby this Great Work of mine when it is finished and lanched
onto a waitin' world may dant her, but, I don't know, I feel dubersome about it.
Sez she when I brung it up to her agin, "Men and wimmen are born with different
traits; wimmen have love and tenderness and sympathy towards the helpless,
babies, husbands, etc. ; you insist that votin' hain't changed nor harmed men's
courtesy and chivalry you talk so much about, so why should votin' break down
these inborn traits in wimmen that men admire?" "But you will see that it will,"
sez I, "and methought I had proved it to you on a former occasion that it is a
scientific fact proved by such scientific men as myself, Simon Bentley Esq., and
other deep thinkers, that the very minute a woman goes to the pole that very
minute a man's courtesy and chivalry towards her is utterly destroyed." But if
you'll believe it even this turrible idee didn't seem to skair her. She sez, "If
I can't have but one I'd ruther have justice than courtesy, but I'd like both,
and don't see why I can't have 'em." But I sez agin firmly and decisively, "You
can't have both on 'em, for if a woman votes, by that brazen and onbecomin' move
of hern, wimmen lose that winnin' weakness and appealin' charm for men, their
helplessness before the law, and their clingin' dependence upon them to take
care of them and their propputy that is so endearin' to my sect. And if they
spile this by their obnoxious act of votin' they must take the awful
consequences." Sez Samantha, "It has worked well in other states; it has helped
men, wimmen and children mentally, socially and legally. If it wuz such a
dangerous thing as you say it is, why have men granted suffrage to wimmen after
it has been tried for twenty years or more in a neighborin' state, right in
their own dooryard as you may say? Would they venter if they hadn't found that
it wuz a good thing?" Sez I hautily, "I am not talkin' about other states or
other countries, or other males or other females. I am working and writing in
the interests of Jonesville and its environin' environs. I am tryin' to ward off
with my right hand, and my steeled pen the waves of error that I see in my own
mind sweepin' down nigher and nigher onto us." And I went on with a soarin'
eloquence enough to melt the heart of a salamander, "I stand at the Gate of
Jonesville as the boy stood on the burnin' deck when all but him had flowed, and
I will stand there protectin' that Gate, and us male Jonesvillians from
infringin' and encroachin' females till I'm sot fire to." I waved out my hand in
a noble jester as I spoke, and spozed mebby it would touch Samantha's heart. But
she looked at me over her specs from head to foot in the cool aggravatin' way
wimmen have sometimes, and I read in her eyes the remark she didn't utter:

"You hain't big enough to make much of a bonfire." But I didn't reply to that
unuttered tant, I felt above it, and went on, "I am not the only man who takes
that firm onchangeable position. England has a high official who occupies the
same noble poster. He don't heed or care what females want or don't want, nor
what other statesmen want or don't want. Nor he don't care what is goin' on in
other parts of the world, or not goin' on. His proud position is to shield
England from the encroachin' army of Female Suffragists. To do what he's made up
his mind to do, and nothin' can't stop him, not threats, nor reason, nor
argument, nor broken winders, nor torn coat tails. A good hard shakin' from a
female can't change him, nor shake his resolve out of him, nor hunger strikes,
nor fleein' wimmen, nor pursuin' ones. He stands side by side with me. And even
if it brought the towers of Jonesville and England in ruins at our four feet we
would not then change our two great minds. "His bizness is to not look to see
what is done in other places or not done, but to protect his own Green Isle from
what he's made up his mind is dangerous and infringin'. "Oh," sez I with a deep
heart felt sithe, "would that we two congenial souls might meet and sympathize
with each other. But though sea and land divides our bodies, our sperits meet
and flow together." I wuz almost lost in the rapped idee of the sweet conference
meetin' we two could enjoy together. But anon I gin my attention to the subject
momentarily broke in upon (for my mind is so large and roomy it is big enough
for several trains of thought to run through it at one time). And I sez as I
remarked prior and heretofore, "Samantha, that courtesy in males is a most
beautiful trait; you see it everywhere, to mill and to meetin', as the old
sayin' is. Now last week when I wuz to the conference, Uncle Sime and I wuz in a
crowded street car and a dretful fat woman come in, heftier than you are,
Samantha." "Is it possible?" sez she coldly (she thinks I make light of her heft
but I don't; it hain't nothin' to make light of, specially when you lift her in
and out the democrat). "Yes," sez I, "she wuz even fatter than you are, and she
come in red-faced and pantin' from the exertion. And a young chap who had been
settin' with two or three other young fellers carryin' on and laughin', the very
minute she come wheezin' in, he riz up and sez to her:

"'I will be one of three men to give you a seat, madam.' "You see, Samantha,"
sez I, "how that inborn courtesy in males inserted itself even in a street car."
"Yes, I see," sez Samantha in a still colder axent, but I could tell by her
linement that she wuzn't a mite convinced. And I went on a praisin' up that
noble trait of my sect, and tryin' to convince her how universal it wuz, and how
turrible it would be for females to lose it, but she kep' on a knittin' on my
blue sock, and sez in quite a reasonable axent for a female to use:

"Yes, to see a great hearted noble man guard and protect a woman is a beautiful
sight, but," sez she, "that trait, though sometimes seen, is not universal." Sez
I, "It is; it is jest as universal as--as--any universalist ever wuz." But she
kep' right on in the persistent, irritatin' way wimmen have; as I've said prior
and before, they can't seem to be willin' to give up to man's superior judgment,
they're bound to talk and argy. And her voice wuz as firm as any rock in our
medder, and if there is anything more firmer and aggravatin' than them I'd like
to see 'em. She made me think that minute of them big rocks when I wuz tryin' to
plough round 'em. I see I could jest as easy make a furrer through them as
through her sot obstinate old mind as she said agin:

"Men don't always use courtesy towards wimmen." As she made that damagin'
insertion agin, is it any wonder that the plough of my manly judgment struck
fire from her rocky obstinacy? I acted fearful wrathy and disputed her right up
and down. Sez I, "That is sunthin' that no man will stand for; they will not
brook bein' accused of a lack of courtesy towards wimmen." I acted dretful
indignant, for in this turrible time us men have got to lay holt of every little
nub of argument and hang onto it like a dog to a bone, or the Lord only knows
what will become on us, or how low a hole we will be ground down into by the
high heels of females. Sez Samantha, "I admit there are beautiful instances of
men protectin' and guardin' wimmen, but how wuz it with Fez Lanfear? He wuz
always boastin' about men's courtesy and chivalry, and how did it come out?" I
sot silent and scratched my head for a minute or so, not as Samantha intimidated
to try to dig out a favorable idee, no, it itched. And I sez, "Id'no as I blame
Fez for always talkin' about this trait in his sect, and Id'no as I blame him
for what it led to." He see how necessary it wuz to insist on men's havin' these
traits, and his wife would argy agin him, and he'd git riled up. He always had
to be real sharp with her and boss her, for if he hadn't he would lost the upper
hand of her, which every man ort to have, and she would took the advantage on
him and run on him. For the propputy all belonged to her and it made Fez
discouraged, and took his ambition away, and he couldn't seem to set himself to
work, and all the comfort he had wuz in arguin' on them traits of men and
playin' on the fiddle and base drum, so she rented her place and they lived on
what she got for it. But knowin' it wuz her ruff that covered him, and her
chairs he sot in, and her vittles he et, and clothes he wore, made him irritated
and fraxious, and he knowed he'd got to sass her and act uppish towards her or
he wouldn't be nothin' nor nobody. And she would act real disagreeable and tell
him she'd love to see some of the courtesy of his sect he talked so much about
showed out by him to home, and she doubted he had any, and knowin' that he had
oceans of it, for every man has, it naterally madded him. And one washin' day
they got to arguin' and he brung up them noble traits of men, and their
onvaryin' courtesy and generosity towards wimmen. And right in the midst on't
she asked him to bring in two pails of water to finish her washin' on account of
her havin' a lame back. He wuz practicin' a new piece entitled "Woman, Lovely
Woman," and bein' so interested in it and bein' broke off so sudden from melody
and men's noble traits to act as a chore boy (he'd argyed so much he could argy
and fiddle) and a smartin' I spoze from the dispute they wuz havin', he wouldn't
git her the water and told her real short to git it herself. And as she started
with two pails for the water--they brung it up from the creek by hand, for Fez
had never had time to make a cistern--she twitted him agin about that courtesy
of men towards wimmen, and bein' so high strung and independent sperited, he up
and hit her and knocked her down, and stood over her a hollerin':

"Now will you dispute me agin, and say that men don't show any courtesy towards
wimmen?" And bein' browbeat and skairt (for he wuz a great strong man and she a
little mite of a woman and tired out) she had to knuckle down and admit that men
_did_ have courtesy, oceans of it. But he wouldn't git the water, he showed his
independence there and she better kep' still and not aggravated him. Lots of
folks blamed him, Samantha did, them that see shaller, and didn't see deep into
first causes. He told Uncle Sime and me jest how it wuz; he said that mad and
aggravated as he wuz he didn't forgit that his wife belonged to the weaker and
tenderer sect, and it wuz a husband's duty and privelige to take care on her and
shield her from harm. And he said he didn't hit her hard at all, only gin her a
little tunk to let her know who wuz master there and that he wouldn't brook
female arguin', and he said that if she hadn't been so tuckered out it wouldn't
have hurt her much of any, and he wuz as surprised as she wuz when she tumbled
over. But he said seein' she laid there on the floor he see it wuz his duty to
his own sect to make her own up how truly superior men wuz, and how much
courtesy they had, for he thought mebby he should never git so good a chance
agin to make her own up to them noble traits of men. Uncle Sime and I both see
how Fez felt and what driv him to do what he did. I tell you agin it is a
perilous and agonizin' epock of time for the male sect at home and abroad. Men
in America havin' to set curled up on a bench by the side of the road, and see
weak wimmen, underlin's, a marchin' by 'em in the center of the street with
brass bands and banners a flyin'. And in England the highest official of the
Empire held by the collar and shook by a weak female jest like a spitball
thrower of a schoolboy, and couldn't resent it in court owin' to his havin' so
much dignity at the stake. Oh, my downtrod sect! what are we a comin' to? I do
git so wrought up a meditatin' on the dretful things that are a happenin' to us
men nowdays, and how browbeat and how humiliated we are by our inferiors, I git
so cast down and deprested that my melancholy sperit has to bust out in poetry.
For some time I've had them feelin's. Now last Christmas night I had such a
spell, and I had to git out of bed and put Samantha's crazy quilt round me (and
it seemed as if that insane quilt made me feel more high strung and wild) and go
out in the settin' room and ease my strugglin' sperit in verse. Why, sometimes
it seems if I didn't have this safety valve to my bustin', swellin' emotions it
seems almost as if I should have to be hooped to keep myself together. But
poetry kinder easies me a little. Now last Saturday night I writ the follerin'
verses as late as leven P.M. We'd been to meetin' as usual, and had a splendid
Christmas dinner. Samantha, as I have mentioned prior and before this, with all
the weaknesses and shortcomin's of her inferior sect, is a masterly cook. But it
is all nonsense her thinkin' I et too much; I didn't eat more'n four pieces of
mince pie, and three helpin's of plum puddin', besides the turkey and vegetables
and salad and such. If a strong man belongin' to a strong and superior sect
can't stand that, it is a pity. She insisted that it wuz a nightmair that sot on
my chist and rid me out of bed into the settin' room that time o' night. But it
wuzn't no such thing, it wuz my melancholy and deprested sperit that overcome me
a thinkin' of my sect and what wuzn't to be. It seems as if everything
melancholy and cast down appeared right in front on me. Seems as if I could see
old Fate a encouragin' and pompeyin' the more opposite sect, and turnin' her
back and lookin' down onto me and my sect, and refusin' me and us things she
might have gin us if she'd a mind to. But bein' a female we might know she'd be
contrary and love to tromple on us, and on me in petickular. As I sot there in
them solemn night hours, with Samantha sleepin' peacefully in the next room and
the old clock tickin' away as if onmindful of the sufferin' sperit near it, it
seemed as if every mean jab old Fate had ever gin me from her sharp elbows and
hard knuckles riz right up before me, and I seemed to see all the agreable
things she might have did for the benefit of me and my sect if she hadn't been
so contrary, but as I said, what could you expect of a female? My feelin's wuz
turrible; the verses I gin vent to relieved me a little some like prickin' a
bile and after writin' 'em I went back to bed and slep' so sound that I never
hearn Samantha buildin' a fire and gittin' breakfast till the sweet uroma of the
coffee and briled chops stole on my wakened senses and I forgot for the moment
the trials of me and my sect and felt better than I did feel. The verses wuz
entitled:

A CHRISTMAS OWED

_By Josiah Allen, Esq., P.M.S.J.C.F._

Yes Christmas has come, it got here at last,   A bringin' me memories out of the
past,   And a pair of galluses, a necktie sad--   A gray night-shirt and a paper
pad;   Useful presents, but nothin' gay,   _Useful presents_, dum 'em! I say! I
wanted some jew'lry for the brethren to see,   But it wuzn't to be, it wuzn't to
be. Ministers preach 'tis a blessed day,   And so it is in a meetin' house way;
But to me it has been a day of gloom,   Samantha I see didn't like the broom,
And mop-stick, and pair of cowhide shues,   It took me the heft of a hour to
chuse;   It made me deprested, and mournfulee   I've mused on the things that
wuzn't to be. Weak females risin' on every hand   Pertendin' that they're equal
to man--   Wantin' to stand right up by his side,   Instead of the place where
they ort to abide   Down in the safety and peace at his feet;   Oh the dear old
times, so happy so sweet,   Will never come back to my sect, nor to me,   No, it
wuzn't to be, it wuzn't to be. Yes, I guess old Fate made a slip of her pen,
When fixin' the lot of the children of men,   'Twas bad for the world and for me
I ween   That I wuzn't born a king or a queen;   My bald head shines out bare
and cold,   Or wears a hat, oh a crown of gold   Would set it off fur agreabler
to me,   But it wuzn't to be, it wuzn't to be. Fate sets a writin' in darkness
and night,   'Tain't spozeable she always gits things right;   To the poor she
sends ten children or more   Crowdin' in through Famine Wolves round the door,
While for one kid the rich may vainly sigh,   But she flirts her skirts and
passes 'em by;   Why hain't villains shot while the good go free? It wuzn't to
be, it wuzn't to be. A poet comes with his dreamy way   Right into a nest of
common clay;   And in pious home a soul gits in   The size of the hole in the
head of a pin;   So 'tain't so strange some feller and I   Should git mixed up
on our way through the sky;   If I had to be born why not been he. It wuzn't to
be, it wuzn't to be. Fate sort o' yanked me and throwed me down   On a Yankee
hillside bare and brown;   And gin me a chance to die or live   Accordin' to
labor I had to give;   I couldn't eat stuns or a burdock burr,   So I had to
hustle and make things purr,   No bread-fruit round, nor no custard-tree;   No,
it wuzn't to be, it wuzn't to be. Now that other feller that might have been me
By a turn of Fate's pen, oh in luxury   He lays and counts up his millions in
bed,   With his crown on the bed-post over his head;   I wonder by Snum! if he
thinks it straight--   For me to be small and him to be great;   When I might
have been him and he might have been me,   But it wuzn't to be, it wuzn't to be.
I'd ask how he'd like it to take off his crown   And to good hard hoein' knuckle
down. Or plantin', or hayin', or a weed pullin' bee   In onion beds, (dum 'em
from A to Z!) I bet I could work on his feelin's so deep   He'd up and divide a
part of his heap,   Jest a thinkin' of how he might have been me--   But it
wuzn't to be, it wuzn't to be. Now that feller's wife, I presoom to say   That
some of the time he has his way;   He's so tarnal lucky and happy and fat,   It
would be jest like him to git even that. Oh I'd dearly love to have it to say
That _once_, jest _once_ I'd had my way   When Samantha and I didn't chance to
agree,   But it wuzn't to be, it wuzn't to be. Samantha of course had to find
fault with these sad but beautiful verses. And she asked me what them letters
meant I had strung along after my name, showin' plain the inherient weakness of
a female's brain. Of course a man would see to once that they stood for Path
Master and Salesman in the Jonesville Cheese Factory. I had talked it over with
Uncle Sime and we both agreed that at this time, when the hull race of men wuz
facin' complete insignificance, if not teetotal anhiliation, it behooved us to
lay holt of every speck of dignity we could lay our hands on, and we both
thought them letters made my name look more noble and riz up. But Samantha
didn't like the verses at all, and agin advanced the uroneous idee that it wuz
my liver that ailed me instead of genius. Sez she, "If folks will gorge
themselves 'till their eyes stand out with fatness,' as the Good Book sez, how
can they see plain to gratefully count over the blessin's the past year has
brought 'em, and lay plans to pass on some of their good cheer to them that set
in the shadders of grief and poverty?" She said I'd be all right in a day or
two, and if I wuzn't she should soak my head, and doctor me, for, sez she, "I
hain't goin' to have anybody round writin' such deprestin' and ongrateful
verses. "Lots of times," sez she, "if sentimental and melancholy poets would git
their livers to workin' better they wouldn't harrer up their readers so. Catnip
would help 'em to look on the brighter side of life, or thoroughwort." And she
didn't like the last pathetic and interestin' stanza; she said I'd had my way,
or _thought_ I'd had it time and agin. And agin she said it wuz my liver that
ailed me, and she even approached me with some catnip tea. Good heavens!
_Catnip!_ to curb my soarin' sperit, and soothe the ardent emotions of my soul.
A regular fool idee. You might know it sprung from a female's brain, or ruther
the holler spot where brains should be--Gracious heaven! _Catnip!_

VI

I TALK ON FEMALES INFRINGIN'

As I've repeated time and agin it is a apaulin' epock of time us males are a
passin' through. More and more, day by day and year by year the female sect is a
infringin' on us. Right after right, privelige after privelige, dear to our
manly souls as the very apples in our eyes, are grasped holt on by encroachin'
female hands and torn away from us weak and helpless men. From birth to death
the infringin' goes on, you can't take up a newspaper now but you see signs
on't. In the good old times when a man had a child born to him to carry on his
name and his propputy to future generations, he took the credit on't. How is it
told on now? instead of puttin' it in as it used to be, and ort to be, "John
Smith has got a son, John Smith Jr."--it is writ down now in this fool way:

"A son is born to John and Mary Smith." What's the use on't? John's name is
enough any fool would know there wuz a female somewhere connected with the event
in a womanly onobstrusive way, but why do they have to bring her name forward to
set her up, and spile her, and mention all these little petickulars? Why, how
wuz it in Bible times, as I asked Samantha, sez I, "From the very first it wuz
set down as it ort to be and a sample to foller, Noah begot Ham, and Ham begot
Cush, and Cush begot Nimrod, and they kep' on begettin' and begettin', chapter
after chapter, and no female's name connected with it in any way, shape or
manner." Sez I, "Hain't that a solemn proof, Samantha, that females are inferior
and wuzn't considered worth writin' about?" Sez I, "You nor no other Female
Suffragist can squirm out of that." Sez Samantha, "Men translated the Bible, but
I can tell you," sez she, "that when Miss Ham, racked with agonizin' pain, went
down to death's door for little Cush, whilst Mr. Ham wuz santerin' round Canean
smart as a cricket, and probable flirtin' with some good lookin' four-mother, if
Miss Ham had writ it up for the Daily Paper her name would been mentioned in the
transaction." That's jest the way it is, even Bible proof can't stop wimmen's
clack and argyin'. Yes, jest as I said, infringin' follers a man from the cradle
to the grave. For I'll be hanged if you don't see it writ nowdays, "James Brown,
beloved husband of Sarah Brown." How bold, how forward! _husband of!_ It seems
as if it is enough to make his grampa, old Jotham Brown, turn over in his grave
and try to git up, to stop such doin's. He lived in a time when females knowed
their place and kep' in it. He had twenty-one children by his seven different
wives, and every one on 'em wuz put in the paper and the old Fambly Bible
credited to him; ketch him havin' any female's name mixed up with it, oh no!
They couldn't infringe on him, not whilst he wuz alive, they couldn't. He worked
his wives hard, and when one died off, he married another. He said as long as
the Lord kep' takin' 'em, he should. As I said no female couldn't git the better
of him whilst he wuz alive, but they played a nasty mean trick on him after he
wuz dead. His last wife wuz a high headed creeter, or would have been if he
hadn't broke her in, and held her head down with such a tight rain. But owin' to
his disagreein' with all his children and bloody relatives she got the propputy
all in her hands, and after he died she got tall noble gravestuns for every one
of his different wives, almost monuments, with a long verse of poetry on each
one on 'em, and their names writ down in full. "Mahala Eliza--Mehitable Jane--
Amanda Mandana--Drusilly Charity--Priscilla Charlotte--Alzina Trypheena--Diantha
Cordelia--all carved in big deep letters, and their names before they wuz
married. These seven high stuns stood in a sort of a half circle with a little
low stun in the center and on it printed in little letters wuz:

"Our Husband." It looked dretful; but his children all hatin' him as they did
they didn't interfere. But it wuz a mean trick and she couldn't have done it if
he'd been alive, no indeed. But seein' he wuzn't there to rain her in and hold
her down, she took the advantage on him as wimmen will if you give 'em the
chance. Folks all thought she done it to come up with him for bein' so hard on
his different wives, and keepin' 'em down so, and I presoom she did. I presoom
she wuz a regular female infringer and suffrager. Now in the marriage notices,
instead of bein' put in the newspaper in the modest becomin' way it used to be,
"John Smith's son married to Mary Brown," it has to be put in Mr. and Mrs.
Smith's son or daughter is married. Where is the good horse sense on't?
Everybody would know that young Smith had a mother somewhere in the background,
but what's the use of bringin' her forward so and makin' on her? It is jest to
infringe on men, that's what it is for. And when Luke Dingman married Nancy
Whittle she had the money to start a store bizness, but Luke bein' a man, his
wuz the name that ort to been spoke on, and he went and got a handsome sign all
painted "Luke Dingman's Store." And if you'll believe it Nancy made him git it
painted all over agin "L. and N. Dingman's Store." What wuz the use of draggin'
a female's initional into it? Jest to infringe on us men. But lots of men made
fun on't and told Luke he'd ort to been man enough to stand his ground and kep'
the first sign. They say it makes Luke real huffy, and he takes it out on Nancy,
is dretful mean to her, but she's only got herself to blame, she hadn't ort to
infringed on him. And last week Samantha and I went to Philena Peedick's
weddin'. And when the minister asked, "Who giveth this woman to this man?" the
widder Peedick walked up bold as brass, and gin Philena away, _she_, a _female
woman_! Never, as I told Uncle Sime, never did I see a plainer or more flagrant
case of infringin' on men's rights. Why, Philena had a male uncle there, and
ruther than see such things go on I would have gin her away myself. But thank
Heaven, there is one thing they hain't changed yet, females have got to knuckle
down and be gin away to a man, in marriage, that's a little comfort. "Who giveth
this woman!" They have got to hear that, much as it may gald 'em. But as I told
Uncle Sime, it would be jest like 'em to try to change that. And I told him the
first we knew a female would snake a man up to the altar, and the minister would
be made to say, Who giveth this man to this woman? and the woman who walked him
up there would say, "I give him." And then she'll hand him over to the bride.
Oh, my soul! have I ever got to see that day? Uncle Sime and I both said that we
hoped and trusted that we would be dead and buried under our tombs before that
humiliation come onto our sect. Uncle Sime and I sympathize a lot together and
talk of the good old times and forebode about the future. And one day when my
sperit seemed crushed down and deprested more than common, and the future for us
men looked dark and gloomy indeed, I sez to him:

"Simon, I see ahead on us the time when I shall be called Mr. Samantha Smith."
Uncle Sime, though very smart, hain't got my mind, sort o' forebodin' and
prophetic, and much as he'd worried about wimmen's infringin', he hadn't
foreboded to that extent, and he trembled like a popple leaf at them dretful
words and sez:

"Oh, gracious heavens, Josiah! how can we men ever stand up under that!" But I
went on, turnin' the knife in the wownd, "Mr. Kittie Brown, Mr. Nellie Jones!
What do you think of that, Simon?" He groaned and sithed but didn't say nothin';
it seemed as if the very idee had fairly stunted him, and I kep' still and
meditated and my mind roamed back to the humiliatin' time when I laid my
onwillin' nose on the grindstun, or ruther it wuz laid on for me and held there,
and I signed a piece of poetry I had writ "Samantha Allen's Husband." It hain't
no use to go into the petickulars and tell all about the means employed to git
me under such mortifyin' subjugation. Vittles had sunthin' to do with it, and I
hain't goin' to tell no furder. But never, never shall I forgit my meachin' and
downtrod linement as I surveyed it in the glass when I wuz shavin' jest
afterwards. Shavin' a beard! that very act riz up and asserted the supremacy of
my sect and mocked the move I had made. Oh, the sufferin's of that occasion and
my vain efforts to git out of it. But Samantha never sympathized with me a mite.
She said, "You've seen me doin' the same thing for years and enjoyed it, and
what is sass for the gander ort to be sass for the goose." There is another
proof of wimmen's infringin'; she turned that familiar old sayin' right round to
carry her pint, and put the goose where the gander always had been, and ort to
be. I tell you there hain't no length a female won't go to to carry the day and
infringe on men's rights. And you might as well git blood from a white turnip as
to git any pity and sympathy from 'em for my downtrod sect. For when I mentioned
to Samantha my turrible forebodin' about my sect havin' to take wimmen's names
at the altar, and asked her if she could begin to realize what men's humiliated
and despairin' feelin's would be at such a time, she up and sez:

"Do you realize what wimmen's feelin's are at the altar? She's had to stand it.
No matter how romantic and beautiful her name wuz, Miss Victoria Angela
Chesterfield has had to change it for Miss Ichabod Tubbs, or Miss Peleg Hogg.
"And," sez she, "if she has a big propputy and married a man so poor he had to
borry his weddin' shirt, she had to hear him say, 'With all my worldly goods I
thee endow,' when all them goods wuz a pile of debts she had to pay for him, but
she had to stand it and couldn't snicker, for it wuzn't a snickerin' time. "And
a great able bodied business woman had to promise to obey a little snip of a
boy, when they both knew she wuz lyin', with a priest hearin' the lie and givin'
it his blessin'. My sect has had to stand considerable from yourn," sez
Samantha. No, I didn't git a mite of sympathy from her, and might have knowed
it, and I'd better not said a word to her about my forebodin's. But Uncle Simon
Bentley always hears my prognostics with respectful sympathy, and he said after
I come out of my meditations, and asked him agin how he would feel to take a
woman's name, he sez:

"Thanks to a kind and protectin' Providence, I hain't married. But never! whilst
I have the sperit of manhood in me would I, Simon Bentley, ever be called Miss
Polly Brown. No, I would cover that alter with my goar, before I would submit to
it." And to comfort me he sez, "Josiah, mebby it won't take place in our day."
But I sez, "Simon, I see it jest ahead on us if this infringin' can't be
stopped, and I don't see no way to stop it." But sez Simon in his comfortin'
way, "Your book, Josiah, that great work, you forgit that. I believe it will
work wonders for our poor strugglin' sect." "No, Simon," sez I, "I don't forgit
that great work for a moment of time; it is the anchor throwed out into the
heavin' water of woman's revolt that is a risin' all round us. Sometimes I hope
the anchor will touch the solid bottom of man's supremacy, and hold, and then I
feel boyed up. But my feelin's ebbs and flows like the mighty ocean to which I
have before fittin'ly compared my emotions. We both on us heave up, and heave
down. To-day I am a heavin' down. Oh, how deprested and dubersome I do feel,"
but I went on in tremblin' axents, "I am bound to make this tremenjous effort,
and if you and I, Uncle Sime, and the rest of our sect have got to lay down in
the dust to be trod on by the feet of underlin's, whilst layin' there under them
high heels, I will have the conscientiousness that I have did what I could for
my downtrod sect." My feelin's overcome me so here that I took out my bandanna
and wiped my eyes, and Uncle Sime hisen. He looked as cast down as I did, as we
both realized our danger from the turrible doin's round us, and instinctively we
took holt of hands and sot there sympathizin' for quite a spell. But anon Uncle
Sime had to go home. He lives with his niece and she sez, "if she has to support
him, he has got to be promp to his meals, or go without," so he hastened off.
And I summoned up the brave dantless sperit of manhood and walked upright
through the kitchen (we'd been settin' on the back stoop). I trod with a firm
bold step and braved Samantha's onsympathizin' demeanor as she stood fryin' nut
cakes, and retired into the welcome seclusion of the corner sacred to my
literary pursuits. Mekanically I run my hands through the dish-pan heaped with
Betsy's poetry. Oh, how sad, when a man has to turn to another female (and one
he has always detested) for the sympathy and understandin' denied him on his own
hearthstun. And though I despise Betsy Bobbett Slimpsey as a human bein' and a
female, yet when torn and wownded from infringin' and cold remarks from my own
pardner, I do draw a little mite of comfort from that granny iron dish-pan, and
runnin' my hand through the poetry heaped up in it, and read how she looks up to
my sect, and the becomin' and reverent views she takes on us, and me in
petickular. And how it has always been the goal of her life and should be to
every womanly female to be united by hook or by crook to one on us, it soothed
me, it brought back the dear old days when man's supremacy wuz onquestioned and
he wuzn't infringed on. And I read how she despises and looks down on the
encroachments of the inferior sect to which she belongs, and how she loathes the
great tide of the Feminist movement that is risin' up all over the world,
threatenin' to sweep us strong males away, as frothy water, if there is enough
on't will uproot giant oaks. I read over piece after piece to cam my sperit,
hurt and wownded by infringin', and my pardner's onsympathizin' words, and I
picked out the follerin' one as bein' comparitively worthy a place in my great
work. This poem, writ before her marriage, I consider the most touchin'ly
pathetic one of all the enormous pile on 'em I had perused. What to a feelin'
mind and tender heart is more pitiful than to see a patridge hidin' his head
under a maple leaf, and thinkin' his hull body is hid from the hunter? What is
more affectin' than to see how Betsy tried to hide her lifelong pursuit of man,
and matrimony, under the cold word, _duty_? "Unless she see her duty plain." Oh,
what a soul of meanin' there is hid under that word, _unless_. A keen eye, and a
tender heart can read between the lines her real meanin', her dantless resolve,
as plain as the hunter sees the plump body and gray tail feathers of the
patridge. But I will not keep the reader longer from the sad but beautiful poem.
STANZAS ON DUTY

_By Betsy Bobbett_

Unless they do their duty see   Oh who would spread their sail   On matrimony's
cruel sea   And face its angry gale? Oh Betsy Bobbett I'll remain _unless_ I see
my duty plain. Shall horses calmly brook a halter   Who over fenceless pastures
stray? Shall females be dragged to the altar,   And down their freedom lay? No,
no, B. Bobbett I'll remain, _unless_ I see my duty plain. Beware! beware, oh
rabid lover   Who pines for intellect and beauty,   My heart is ice to all your
overtures   unless I see my duty,   For Betsy Bobbett I'll remain _unless_ I see
my duty plain. Come not with keys of rank and splendor   My heart's cold portals
to unlock,   'Tis vain to search for feelin's tender   Too late you'll find
you've struck a rock;   For Betsy Bobbett I'll remain _unless_ I see my duty
plain. 'Tis vain for you to pine and languish,   I cannot soothe your bosom's
pain,   In vain are all your groans, your blandishments   I warn you are in
vain;   For Betsy Bobbett I'll remain _unless_ I see my duty plain. You needn't
lay no underhanded   Plots to ketch me, men desist   Or in the dust you will be
landed   For to the last I will resist. For Betsy Bobbett I'll remain _unless_ I
see my duty plain. VII

ABOUT WIMMEN'S FOOLISH LOVE FOR PETICKULARS

How folkses emotions will sometimes rise up entirely onexpected and onbeknown to
them, and git the better on 'em. Of course we male Americans have always
foreboded and felt dretful about a certain subject. But this mornin' it come
over me like a black flood, the realizin' sense of the enormous labor that
votin' would bring onto weak delicate females, and how impossible it wuz for
their fraguile constitution and puny strength to stand up under it. Why, how
many many times we statesmen have said and preached and lectured that wimmen
wuzn't much more nor less than angels, and ort to be treated as such. Tender
delicate flowers, to be kep' from every chillin' breeze of life that tried to
blow onto 'em. Such talk has been one of the greatest comforts of us men, and
has been very affectin' and effective with lots of females. As I say I've knowed
it and held forth on it for years and years, ever since this loathsome doctrine
of Wimmen's Rights become so prominent in Jonesville. But as many different
emotions as I've had about it, never wuz my feelin's so wrought up as upon this
occasion I speak of. My steeled pen fairly trembled in my hands, shook by my
devotion to Samantha, and my determination if possible to keep her beloved and
delicate form from sinkin' down under the awful fateeg of votin', and havin'
Rights. I wuz so excited and strung up by my feelin's, that I felt that I must
warn her agin about it that very minute, and I hollered to her to come to me to
once. I spoze my voice wuz skairful, my feelin's wuz such, and she come a
hurryin' in wipin' her hands on her apron, and sez she, "For the land's sake!
what is the matter, Josiah? Have you got a crick?" "No," sez I, "I've fell into
fur deeper waters than any crick. It come over me like a overwhelmin' flood, the
thought of the weakness of wimmen, and the arjous and tuckerin' job of votin',
and how impossible it wuz for weak wimmen to not sink down under it, and I felt
I had to warn you about it this very minute, and entreat you agin to shun it as
you would a pizen serpent." "Well," sez she, "you better forebode to yourself
another time. I wuz jest rensin' out my last biler of clothes, and I've got to
whitewash the summer kitchen, and paint the buttery floor, and scrape the paper
off overhead in the settin' room, so's to paper it to-morrow. And I guess that
whitewashin' and scrapin' off that paper with a case knife overhead is as hefty
a job as liftin' up a paper ballot, to say nothin' of the biler full of clothes
I'm liftin' on and off, and sweatin' over the wash-tub. And I'll thank you to
keep your forebodin's and warnin's to yourself in the future, and not call me
offen my work." And she went out and shet the door hard. And that's all the
thanks I got for my tender feelin's and overpowerin' desire to keep hardships
from her. But I knowed she wuz expectin' company, and fixin' up and preparin'
for 'em, so I overlooked it in her, and I presoom to say the thought of that
company and the extra good meals we wuz sure to have, had a amelioratin' effect
on me. But her hashness won't stop me nor other noble tender hearted males from
worryin' about the turrible hardship and labor of votin', and tryin' our best to
keep the gentle delicate females we are protectin' and guardin' from plungin'
into it. But I'm so sensitive and my feelin's so easy hurt, that it must have
been a minute and a half before my mind settled down agin and I could hold my
steeled pen in as firm a grip as heretofore, and resoom my powerful
argumentative strain. Another reason I've argued why wimmen should not vote wuz
she would act so awkward in politics she would put in so many petickulars,
wimmen's minds hain't stabled, they hain't got horse sense. And they don't nor
won't appreciate that good old doctrine that has always been such a comfort to
me and Uncle Sime and other statesmen, that what has been always will be, and to
let well enough alone. No they have got to be tinkerin' and tryin' to make
things better, and interfere, and talk and tell petickulars. Now if a merchant
sells 'em cloth for their fambly, instead of buyin' and payin' for it and
keepin' their mouth shet as a man would, they'll feel of it and pull it to and
fro, fro and to. And if it hain't what he claims it is, if it is shoddy and
poor, they'll talk and talk till he has to hustle round and buy good stuff, or
they won't trade with him, takin' off his profits jest by petickulars. And if a
grocer lets his eatin' stuff lay round outdoors for the flies to roost on, do
you spoze they'll buy that stuff? No, their minds not bein' bigger than them fly
specks, they'll hound that man till they make him cover up that stuff or bring
it into the house, and every one that has got horse sense knows it makes that
man extra work, but what do they care? And if he tries to make a little more
money by sellin' things that hain't jest what you might call hullsome--and of
course every business man understands that he wants to make all the money he can
--why, the woman that buys that stuff once, and thinks it hain't what she wants
to feed her fambly on, she begins to tell petickulars; she'll call it rotten,
and tell how long it has been in cold storage, she'll say "to lessen population
and increase some millionaire's revenue." And she'll call his canned vegetables
mouldy, and tell how his canned meat smells, and how it made her children sick,
and how Eben Purdy's little girl died after eatin' it, and how it took off old
Miss Lanfear. All these little petickulars she has to dwell on with other wimmen
till she gits 'em all rousted up and there will be a dozen talkin' at one time,
sez I, and sez he, and sez she, and sez they. And they'll keep it up and jest
boycote that man till he has to keep hullsome goods that cost him most as much
agin, and of course cuts down his profits, but they don't think of that. And how
them wimmen found fault with the decision of the Supreme court, that pizen could
be used to bleach flour, when they knew the Supreme court is composed of the
very smartest men in the Nation. And they knowed them supreme men didn't approve
of usin' enough pizen in it to kill the aged and infants. But they had to argy
and boast that if they wuz supreme wimmen, they wouldn't had a mite of pizen put
into bread, jest as if grown folks can't stand a little pizen now and then. But
you can see plain that they claim that wimmen can manage the home and food
bizness better than men, and want to find fault with men and git the upper hands
on 'em. And it is jest so with milk. A fool ort to know that it makes a man as
much agin work to fuss and clean off his cows and his stables every day, and
keep his milk absolutely clean. But what do they care if a man breaks his back
cleanin' his stables and washin' off his cows' tits. They'll talk and put in
every little petickular about how many babies wuz killed by his bad milk, and
how many folks got tomain from it, till they carry the day and git the milk they
want. Another man made to toe the mark by petickulars. And it is jest so with
stuff throwed into the street--why, a man can't call his soul his own, and throw
a old cabbage or rotten potato into the street without their interferin' with
him, and makin' him clean up his primises and keep a covered garbage can.
[Illustration: "Till she gets 'em all rousted up, and just boycote that man till
he has to keep hullsome food"]

Now jest imagine what that meddlin' interferin' sperit would be if carried into
politics, if public officials wuz a prey to woman's petickulars. Now spozin' a
man wuz nominated for some high office that hain't mebby jest exactly square.
For as Uncle Sime sez, "What man is square in public life? No," he sez, "you'll
find 'em every shape and size, except 4 by 4." But wimmen can't accept that
scientific statement, made by folks that know, that men are made in such a way
that public life and politics wears and rubs on their square corners, and digs
into and destroys their shape, so as Uncle Sime sez, "They can't help bein'
crooked." But wimmen's brains hain't strong enough, and their naters and
consciences hain't elastic enough to comprehend such matters. They always have
and always will pay more attention to them little petickulars of Right and Wrong
than men have time to. As I've said before, they can't see big, they see little.
They'll talk it over together how many million dollars is made by the White
Slave trade every year, ketchin' sweet young girls, they'll say by the net of
their love, by drink, by pizened needles, flattery, lies, treachery, takin' 'em
from health, home and happiness, and throwin' 'em to the lions of Lust and
Greed, into livin' deaths. Oh, yes, they'll put in all the petickulars. And
they'll ask how many millions wuz made by highway graft, tax-payers wadin'
through mud, whilst high officials, contractors and public grabbers stuff the
tax-payer's money in their pockets. And they'll bring up stories about all the
other big corporations and money grabbers. And how much blood money is made
yearly by whiskey sellin'? That is the main fountain their petickulars gush
from. Now if a smart hustlin' saloon keeper is nominated for some high office
and wimmen could vote, what would be the consequence? Why, they would jest
onloose them petickulars onto him and he would be washed completely away on 'em.
They wouldn't know any better than to peek and pry into his bizness, and run it
down to the lowest notch. Jest as if a bizness that is good enough for the U.S.
Govermunt isn't good enough for them. No, their naters bein' such, and they've
got such itchin' ears, they'll pry round into every crook and turn of that man's
bizness, and talk about it till they git the hull community riled up. The hull
wimmen crew will pin on their white ribbings, and git their heads together,
tellin' some story agin him, and the bizness he represents, and go into all the
petickulars, sez I, and sez he, and sez she, and sez they. "Le'me see," sez
they, "when wuz it he got Hen Daggett so drunk that he went home and whipped his
wife, and most killed her and her next baby wuz born a fool. "And what time o'
night wuz it, wuz it ten or twelve, that he got old Chawgo's boy crazy drunk and
wantin' to git rid on him, histed him up on his motorcycle and started him for
home, and he didn't go half a mile before he fell off and wuz killed. "And what
time of year wuz it, wuz it late in the spring or early in the summer, that them
two Wizzel girls wuz took from his saloon drugged and unconscious, and not a
hide or hair on 'em seen sence. "And le'me see, wuz it on a Monday or a Tuesday,
that them two men got into a drunken fight in his saloon and both on 'em got
killed. No, it wuz on a Wednesday, for I remember I cut my bib apron wrong, I
cut it ketrin ways, and jest as I wuz cuttin' it over, I hearn of that big
railroad smash-up where two hundred got killed and maimed by a drunken
engineer." Them wimmen would bring up all them little petickulars agin that man,
and his bizness lection day, jest to be mean, and to beat him. Every man and
woman whiskey had destroyed, all the crime and agony and poverty it has caused,
every fambly wrecked by it, every young man ruined, every young girl who went
through the saloon into destruction, and the one hundred thousand deaths caused
by it every year. They wouldn't know enough to keep their mouths shet at this
time when it wuz so important to have 'em shet up; they'd jest clutter up the
road to the pole with petickulars. And no matter how flourishin' a bizness that
man wuz doin', and how much money he wuz makin', and how much he wuz willin' to
pay for votes, helpin' the male community in this way, they'd carry the day agin
him. They can't seem to realize what a loss in propputy it is to the man they're
a houndin'. And if you twit 'em of it they'll twit back and ask, What of the one
billion, four hundred million dollars loss to the country every year, caused by
strong drink, and ask you if you know that as many Americans are killed every
year by it as has been killed in all the battles of the world since time begun.
Havin' to ask all these little leadin' questions at jest that onconvenient time
and take the advantage on him. And then when they git him turned down and some
favorite religious man elected in his place, oh, how their tongues would run
agin, tellin' of all the good things he'd done and would do; agin it would be
sez I, and sez he, and sez she, and sez they. Wimmen can't seem to learn to set
still to home, and knit, no, they have got to meddle and interfere with men's
bizness, as fur as they can, and woe be to us if they ever cut loose and run
furder. Why the Hullsale Liquor Dealers' Association will agree with every word
I've said. They know what females are, and what they can do when they git their
white ribbings on, and are banded together agin 'em, and they begin to tell
petickulars. That's what makes 'em fight so agin Woman's Suffrage. They know
where they and their bizness would be after a few years of wimmen's petickulars
and votin', and they're willin' to pay well them that help 'em. As I've
intimidated before, to a smart hustlin' bizness man who looks out for his own
interest, it is absolutely appallin' to see how Woman Suffragists stand in their
own light. But in my talk about the shiftless ways of these wimmen, and their
tetotle inability to see where their interests lays, I want to make a honorable
exception of the modest retirin' She Auntys. Them wimmen, though females, have
got some good horse sense; they know which side their bread is buttered and they
lay out to keep it right side up. They know who helps butter that bread. They
know it is better to ride round in palace cars to their lectures agin Female
Suffrage, helped by them who hate that cause like pizen, than it is to walk
afoot. And they know enough to grasp special priveliges, and enjoy 'em, and they
lay out to help the ones that help them. Liquor dealers have got oceans of horse
sense, and oceans of money, and they let that money flow along where it will do
the most good, into female channels if necessary. Anything to dam up the big
waters of Reform from risin' up and washin' 'em away, and stop Woman Suffragists
from ruinin' their bizness, and tellin' petickulars and votin'. And I'll ask
this question of any man or woman with the brains of a angleworm or caterpillar
--Hain't it easier to float along with the current, than to fight agin it and go
in the other direction? Why a fool ort to know it is. You won't ketch them She
Auntys a peekin' round huntin' for every little petickular about what the Liquor
Dealers' Association stands for, and talk and tattle about the effects of liquor
sellin', no indeed. And I want to say and own up that when I find a spark of
horse sense in a female, I'm willin' to own up to seein' that spark shinin' out
agin the background of females' nateral ignorance and folly. We Jonesvillians
reconize smartness and horse sense, and I want to encourage and happify them She
Auntys by sayin', that the Creation Searchin' Society of Jonesville will never
be found throwin' out no slurs agin them. Neither will I as a male man, and a
celebrated author, ever be found mockin' and sneerin' at 'em. Of course they are
females, but considerin' the limited amount of brains that females have and
their scurcity of horse sense, they have done and are doin' the best they can.
The Creation Searchin' Society of Jonesville and the Liquor Dealers' Association
stand up hand in hand, with me in the midst, and publicly reconize their humble
helpfulness, and what more in the way of honor can any human female ask for? I
always despised petickulars, every male man duz. It's nateral when our minds are
took up with big things, big thoughts, petickulars jar on us; we hain't got the
time for 'em in our busy lives. But I believe few of my bretheren can say what I
can, that petickulars come within one of bein' the death on 'em. The way on't
wuz Samantha wuz to Tirzah Ann's visitin' and wuz took bed sick there, and right
while I wuz stark livin' alone, I wuz took down with voylent pains runnin' up
and down my spinal collar, and hull body. But the neighborin' wimmen, friends of
Samantha, I will say done all they could for me, they flocked in and filled me
up with milk porridge, chicken broth, etc., and sot up with me nights and waited
on me, helped by their various husbands. And I should got along all right if it
hadn't been for the endless swarm of petickulars they driv into my room. Talk,
talk, talk, and tellin' petickulars, some on 'em smaller than the